Does Sears Holdings (NASDAQ: SHLD) Chairman and CEO Eddie Lampert really believe his once-venerable retailing empire is on the verge of collapse, or is the company's "going-concern" declaration merely some boilerplate to comply with SEC regulations?Continue Reading BelowIn a March 21 filing with the SEC, Sears Holdings wrote: "Our historical operating results indicate substantial doubt exists related to the Company's ability to continue as a going concern."Certainly, for a business to get to the point that it needs to include such language in its filings shows there is risk of failure. However, "substantial doubt" doesn't mean certainty and management can mitigate those risks. Lampert believes his plans more than override those fears.In fact, in the filing, Sears Holdings follows up the going concern language by noting that, "We believe that the actions discussed above are probable of occurring and mitigating the substantial doubt raised by our historical operating results and satisfying our estimated liquidity needs 12 months from the issuance of the financial statements." That's encouraging, but the next sentence notes that "... we cannot predict, with certainty, the outcome of our actions to generate liquidity, including the availability of additional debt financing, or whether such actions would generate the expected liquidity as currently planned."Image source: Sears Holdings.A warning shotContinue Reading Below ADVERTISEMENTA "going concern" notice is language companies use to let investors know there are some serious, potentially fatal, risks facing it. All companies operate on the assumption they will remain a going concern, or a viable business,well into the future. That is the presumption everyone goes by and it's the basis for how companies file their financial statements.However, when significant problems arise that could create not onlyturmoil, but actually undermine the company's ability to keep functioning, businesses have a duty to warn people that risk exists. The Financial Accounting Standards Board says, "When relevant conditions and events, considered in the aggregate, indicate that it is probable that the entity will be unable to meet its obligations as they become due within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued," management should disclose the risk [emphasis added].The board goes on to say that even if there are conditions that can mitigate or even alleviate the substantial doubts raised, companies must still warn of the existence of the risks.A deeply dug holeThis is what seems to be going on with Sears. In its annual 10-K report, the retailer pointed to its historical operating results for causing the "substantial doubt" about its future existence. One look at Sears quarterly filings shows that deepening losses can only go on for so long before a company gives up the ghost.In the fourth quarter, Sears' losses expanded to $607 million from $580 million the previous year, though both periods included non-cash charges for Sears' deteriorating trade name, understandably, though, it was a much larger amount this year than last. Revenues were also on the decline, falling to $6.1 billion from $7.3 billion, and though a lot has to do with the large number of stores Sears Holdings has closed, it's also because fewer people are shopping at its Sears and Kmart stores.Yet following the filing of the annual report, Sears CFO Jason Hollar took to the company's blog to further explain that this was indeed boilerplate to the extent Sears is required to disclose the risks by regulation, but the retail company has a plan in place to turn things around. He also pointed to Sears' independent auditors giving the retailer an "unqualified audit opinion," meaning they believe Sears remains a going concern "that can meet its financial and other obligations for the foreseeable future."Plenty of wiggle roomOne can argue that Hollar's outlook is just feel-good language intended to get investors to whistle past the graveyard. That's what teen retailer Aeropostale appeared to do as it careened toward bankruptcy. Despite consistently touting its plans to return to profitability, it still went under, and it never warned investors about its ability to survive as a going concern.In none of its filings did Aeropostale mention there was any "substantial doubt." Not when its stock plunged into penny stock territory, nor when it was delisted from the NYSE, nor even when it filed notices saying it couldn't file its financial statements in a timely manner. In fact, the only time Aeropostale warned about its viability was after it declared bankruptcy. The Wall Street Journal reported that Sears' disclosure about its concerns and its optimism were required by a new accounting rule.Sears and Lampert do finally have a plan forfixingthe retailer, and it'sratherinnovative, even if it's a long shot to succeed after more than a decade of neglect. But maybe the saying "better late than never" will hold true for the retailer.Image source: Sears Holdings.The domino effectPlan or not, though, there are real-world implications that stem from Sears raising these doubts in its filings, even ifeveryone already knew they existed. Vendors that were already jittery about delivering merchandise to the retailer may become even more so now that Sears has publicly acknowledged the jeopardy it faces. Vendors are already unable to get insurance to cover their shipments to the retailer, and continuing to supply Sears means they are gambling they'll still be paid if the music stops.Sears' stock also plunged 12% on the disclosure, though it has rallied sharply since, and that could be because investors realize Sears was merely following the rules and Lampert has a game plan, even if it is late in coming. Recently reportedinsider buying also pushed the stock up. That doesn't mean I'd be buying Sears stock, though, because the retailer faces some exceptionally strong headwinds that even better-financed companies are having trouble getting through.The going concern notice by Sears is important and there is a lot to be worried about with the retailer, but this particular disclosure isn't the final piece of this puzzle, and Lampert may make a surprise return from the brink.10 stocks we like better than Sears HoldingsWhen investing geniuses David and Tom Gardner have a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*David and Tom just revealed what they believe are the 10 best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Sears Holdings wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.Click here to learn about these picks!*Stock Advisor returns as of February 6, 2017Rich Duprey has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.


UPDATE 2-Venezuela's Maduro calms court row after critics condemn "coup"CARACAS, April 1 Venezuelan authorities called on the country's Supreme Court to review its decision this week to annul the opposition-led congress, which critics have decried as a "coup" and a lurch to dictatorship.


As Sears nears bankruptcy, some investors are looking for ways to profit from the retailer's collapse.In an annual report filed on March 22, the company said its operating results showed "substantial doubt" about whether it would remain in business. Sears has closed hundreds of stores and sold off assets to raise cash.Traders who bet against the company by short-selling its stock have profited as it tumbled. According to financial analytics firm S3 Partners, almost all the shares that can be lent have already been taken. But there's another closely related company that traders are betting against."With borrow liquidity all but exhausted on Sears Holding Corp, and with financing fees hitting the triple digit mark this week amid volatile trading activity, one might look at Seritage Growth Properties (SRG US) as an alternative short play to indirectly gain exposure to Sears' demise, without the potential massive short squeeze risk," said S3 Partners' Matthew Unterman in a note on Thursday.Seritage is a publicly traded real estate investment trust that re-leases properties in over 200 shopping centers. It was formed in 2015 when Sears sold 266 of its properties to the company for $2.7 billion.Short interest in Seritage is at a record high of as much as 35% of shares on the market, Unterman said. Seritage earns most of its income from Sears and is effectively a real estate spinoff. But it's started renting some of its Sears stores to third-party retailers, and raising the rent. Therefore, it won't necessarily be wiped out if Sears goes bankrupt.But time is running out for traders who want to short Seritage as a play on Sears, Unterman said. "With short interest in SRG continuing to rise, there may not be too much time to initiate a bearish bet as borrow liquidity tightens due to the increased demand from bearish speculators."


Barely more than a week ago, Sears Holdings (NASDAQ:SHLD) officially notified investors as part of its annual report that it may not be able to continue indefinitely as a "going concern." Not surprisingly, this triggered a sharp decline in its stock price.Yet in the past week, Sears stock has more than bounced back. In fact, since bottoming out at $7.60 last week, Sears Holdings shares have rallied nearly 50%, including a massive 20% gain on Tuesday. This has sent them to their highest level of 2017.The recent rally in Sears stock was sparked by a spate of insider buying by Sears CEO Eddie Lampert and board member Bruce Berkowitz. However, investors shouldn't assume that it's safe to buy Sears stock just because these two hedge fund titans are doing so.Sears is flounderingIn 2016, comp sales fell 7.4% and revenue plunged 12% year over year at Sears, leading to negative free cash flow of $1.5 billion. Indeed, Sears Holdings has been generating negative free cash flow of $1.5 billion or more annually for several years now. This is what forced the company to state in its recent annual report that it might not be able to stay in business.Thus far, management has resorted to a host of financial engineering tricks to keep the company out of bankruptcy. These efforts have included selling the rights to the popular Craftsman tool and lawn care brand and spinning off various non-core businesses like Lands' End. However, real estate has been the biggest source of cash.Most notably, Sears spun off Seritage Growth Properties (NYSE:SRG) as a REIT in 2015 and immediately executed a $2.7 billion sale-leaseback deal covering 266 properties. This deal is critical to understanding the recent volatility in Sears shares.Lampert and Berkowitz have other interestsTypically, when insiders buy company stock, other investors see it as a sign of confidence in the business. That's certainly the way investors seem to view the recent insider purchases of Sears stock by Eddie Lampert and Bruce Berkowitz. Together, the two investors (including their hedge funds ESL Investments and Fairholme Capital Management) have bought more than $10 million of Sears stock in the past week and a half and now own about 80% of Sears Holdings.However, this insider buying is more likely an attempt by Lampert and Berkowitz to prop up their broader financial interests related to Sears.An 80% stake in Sears was worth less than $700 million a week ago. By contrast, Lampert and Berkowitz have far more money tied up in Sears' debt and in related companies like Seritage. Lampert, ESL, and Fairholme together appear to hold roughly $2 billion of Sears debt and own a substantial proportion of Seritage, which has a sizable market cap of $2.4 billion.The debt holdings give Lampert and Berkowitz a clear motivation to keep Sears operating as long as possible. Similarly, Seritage Growth Properties gets more than 60% of its base rent from Sears Holdings. So while Seritage's long-term strategy is to replace Sears throughout its portfolio with tenants who can pay higher rents, it would be in deep trouble if Sears suddenly went bankrupt and stopped paying rent.This is one stock to avoidEddie Lampert and Bruce Berkowitz may not be as bullish about Sears' future as their recent stock purchases would suggest. They probably hope that by solidifying their ownership of the company, they will at least be able to influence the timing of its seemingly inevitable demise. This is critically important to them, because they need Sears to repay (in full) the debt they hold and they need to give Seritage more time to diversify its tenant base.There is no credible plan for returning Sears Holdings to profitability, though. Its customer base is rapidly defecting and the company can't afford to make the investments that are needed to keep up with rivals.Sears bulls may have a few days or weeks of glory. But when the dust settles, it will be clear that the company is still heading for bankruptcy. Investors can avoid the carnage by steering clear of Sears stock.


Still, coming after seven straight years of huge losses, the announcement seems a milestone on a road that has only one likely end.Advertisement Continue reading the main story“It takes a retailer like Sears a long time to die,” said Greg Melich, senior managing director and head of consumer research for Evercore, and the last Wall Street analyst still covering Sears. “It’s been burning through over a billion dollars in cash every year. That’s not sustainable.”Sears Holdings has long been ESL’s largest investment, along with other Sears assets Mr. Lampert spun off, such as the struggling Lands’ End. (The two holdings accounted for nearly half the fund’s holdings at the end of the year, according to its most recent securities filings.) Sears Holdings shares were $162 in 2006; this week they were barely above $11.Few hedge fund managers have been as celebrated as Mr. Lampert in his heyday, which now appears to be the mid-2000s. Mr. Lampert was a Wall Street wunderkind, a Goldman Sachs intern whose intellect, ingratiating personality and prodigious work ethic attracted the patronage of some of America’s most prominent and successful investors: Robert Rubin, Mr. Lampert’s mentor at Goldman; Richard Rainwater, who invested for the billionaire Bass brothers before starting his own firm; and David Geffen, the billionaire entertainment mogul.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyMr. Lampert was 25 years old and at the vanguard of the hedge fund movement when he founded ESL in 1988 with $28 million in seed money from Mr. Rainwater.The change in Sears share price from 2006 to the beginning of this week.Just three years later, he was the subject of a front-page profile in The Wall Street Journal. He reaped even more publicity after he was kidnapped at gunpoint in 2003 and held hostage in a Days Inn before talking his way to freedom. By 2004, ESL’s spectacular 29 percent annualized returns landed him on the cover of Businessweek magazine.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyBesides Mr. Rainwater and Mr. Geffen, his high-profile investors included Michael Dell, members of the Ziff publishing family and Thomas J. Tisch, a philanthropist and heir to the Tisch family fortune. In 2006, Forbes ranked him No. 67 on its list of the 400 richest Americans, with a net worth of $3.8 billion, a few notches ahead of another retailing executive, Jeff Bezos of Amazon. He was widely hailed as another Warren Buffett, only perhaps even smarter. “Eddie is one of the extraordinary investors of our age, if not the most extraordinary,” Mr. Tisch told Businessweek.No one compares Mr. Lampert to Mr. Buffett anymore. His high-profile investors are, for the most part, long gone. Mr. Tisch, who’s also a director of Sears, is described as steadfastly loyal. Steven Mnuchin, Mr. Lampert’s roommate at Yale and now Treasury secretary, disclosed last year that he had a $26 million investment in ESL. (Mr. Mnuchin said he would divest the position.)Advertisement Continue reading the main storyNotably, a group of Goldman Sachs clients who had invested $3.5 billion in 2007 bailed out of the fund in 2013. Their exit “pretty much says it all” as far as investor confidence in Mr. Lampert goes, Mr. Melich said.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyWhere did someone as smart, successful and hard-working as Mr. Lampert go wrong? His initial concept to combine two iconic but deeply distressed retailers — Kmart and Sears — initially appealed to many investors as a classic investment in undervalued, poorly managed assets in the Warren Buffett style. But Mr. Buffett doesn’t personally manage his portfolio companies. Several former Lampert investors told me that Mr. Lampert’s fundamental mistake was one common to many once-successful hedge fund managers: hubris, and the belief that investment prowess would translate into management skill.Advertisement Continue reading the main story“He was a very successful investor before he took over Kmart and Sears,” said Mark Cohen, former chief executive of Sears Canada and a professor at Columbia Business School, where he’s the director of retail studies. (Mr. Cohen left Sears Canada before Mr. Lampert arrived.)“He seemed to think he was smarter than anyone in the retail business, but he had no idea how to run the company from Day 1,” Mr. Cohen said. “One thing I teach is that core competencies are the basis for success or failure. Lampert had no experience in retail, and no management competency whatsoever.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Sears and other brick-and-mortar retail chains, of course, have been battered over the last decade by forces beyond Mr. Lampert’s control, especially the rise of internet retailing. Mr. Lampert claims to have foreseen the trend. If so, he’s had scant success carrying out a strategy to deal with it.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyHis one consistent approach over the years has been to cut costs drastically. Initially, it seemed to work, increasing cash flow and earnings. “There’s a philosophy to that,” Mr. Melich said, but Sears “grossly underinvested in areas that proved to be very relevant to the future of merchandising, such as multichannel retailing.”He pointed to the contrast between Sears and Home Depot, whose shares have nearly tripled in the last five years, despite the internet and competition from Amazon.PhotoMr. Lampert has shown more prowess as a financial engineer, and has seemingly squeezed Sears’s once formidable assets for every penny of value through a continuing series of asset sales, spinoffs, dividend payouts and loans secured by Sears assets. Mr. Lampert has emphasized that because he is Sears’s largest shareholder, his interests are aligned with other Sears shareholders.But the perception persists that many of these deals have benefited Mr. Lampert more than shareholders, since he’s often on both sides of the transactions.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyOver the last two years alone, Mr. Lampert and ESL have extended Sears over $800 million in loans secured by Sears assets — nearly two-thirds as much as Sears’s entire market capitalization of $1.2 billion. That makes Mr. Lampert and ESL the largest Sears creditors, giving them vastly different interests than most shareholders. (ESL Investments holds 48 percent of Sears Holdings’s equity and 32 percent of its total long-term debt.) As creditors, they could end up owning Sears if it reorganizes in bankruptcy, while other Sears shareholders would be wiped out.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyLast month, Mr. Lampert and the Sears board agreed to pay $40 million to settle a shareholder lawsuit claiming that Sears’s sale and lease-back of much of its most valuable real estate to a real estate investment trust — 43 percent owned by Mr. Lampert and his ESL hedge fund — was a blatant conflict of interest that harmed Sears shareholders. Sears has denied any wrongdoing and said it had settled the suit merely to avoid “protracted litigation.”Advertisement Continue reading the main storyMr. Lampert “has stripped Sears of its assets,” Mr. Cohen said. “It’s the longest liquidation in retail history. His reputation in the retail community is that he’s a financial pirate.”Like most hedge fund managers, Mr. Lampert continues to get a management fee no matter how poorly the fund’s assets perform.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyStill, Sears’s travails and their impact on ESL’s results have clearly taken a toll on Mr. Lampert’s own fortunes. Although Mr. Lampert probably shows substantial gains on his original investment in Sears and Kmart, “he and ESL investors can’t have fared very well over the past six or seven years,” Mr. Melich said.Mr. Lampert remains one of the country’s richest people. He owns lavish homes in Greenwich, Conn.; Aspen, Colo.; and Miami as well as a 288-foot yacht, Fountainhead, named after the Ayn Rand novel (Mr. Lampert is a devotee of the author). Last year Forbes ranked him tied for No. 309 on its annual list of the 400 richest Americans, with a net worth of $2.3 billion.But that’s a billion-and-a-half dollars less than Forbes estimated back in 2006. Since then, Mr. Bezos has vaulted to No. 2 on the Forbes list, just behind Bill Gates, with a net worth of $67 billion. Had Mr. Lampert simply put his fortune in a stock market index fund rather than gaining control of Sears and Kmart, he would have fared far better.Through a spokesman, Mr. Lampert declined to comment.Even his critics concede that Mr. Lampert has been stubbornly consistent, refusing to throw in the towel on Sears even after years of deteriorating results. In a news release last week, he showed no signs of backing down, pledging yet another “fundamental restructuring” of Sears.His strategy? Cutting “at least $1 billion in costs on an annualized basis.”





Sears Chairman and CEO Edward Lampert bought 526,000 shares of company stock even as he is expressing doubt that the company can keep its doors open.Lampert purchased shares worth more than $4.1 million during a span of three days from March 22-24, according to a Friday regulatory filing cited by the Chicago Sun-Times.The Chicago-based retailer’s stock jumped more than 10 percent on the news Monday. It was trading at $10.60 per share at noon on Tuesday, up 12.4 percent from the day before.Lampert is already the company’s biggest shareholder, but he isn’t the only company-affiliated buyer to make a recent Sears stock purchase.Fairholme Capital Management purchased 14,000 shares of Sears stock Monday, according to a filing. Bruce Berkowitz, Fairholme’s chief investment officer, is also a member of Sears’ board of directors, per the Sun-Times. Since March 10, Fairholme Capital Management bought more than 1.4 million Sears shares.The stock purchases come as Sears Holdings (NASDAQ: SHLD) revealed last week that it had “substantial doubt” that it could continue to operate, according to its latest annual report filing. The Chicago-based Sears has lost more than $10 billion in the past few years, according to Bloomberg, and weak earnings are causing executives to question the business’ sustainability.Sears has already closed retail stores and sold real estate, per Bloomberg. The company recently completed the sale of its Craftsman tool brand to Stanley Black & Decker for $900 million. Sears will also consider selling its other businesses, including Kenmore appliances and DieHard car battery brands.Lampert is a hedge fund manager and Sears’ biggest investor. He plans reduce the company’s debt and pension obligations by $1.5 billion and has already provided Sears with more than $1 billion of assistance, including a $500 million loan facility.Join the conversation: Follow @ ChiBizJournal on Twitter, "like" us on Facebook , and sign up for our free email newsletters and news alerts.


If you were holding on to struggling retailer Sears Holdings Corp (NASDAQ: SHLD ) this past week, congratulations. Sears stock has gained nearly 30% in just five days — a feat that very, very few people expected from the bedraggled department store chain.After all, just a few days ago, Sears gave investors reason to run for the hills by saying it was unsure about its “ability to continue as a going concern.” In short, management has very real worries about the firm going under, and amid a ton of talk about turnarounds, it finally openly admitted it.Days later, SHLD stock made its way skyward.What Happened?Sears CEO Eddie Lampert and Fairholme Fund’s Bruce Berkowitz happened.The two bought up 526,000 and 286,600 shares over the past week in what many believe was an effort to squeeze out short sellers. It’s difficult to imagine a situation in which Lampert and Fairholme expect Sears to turn itself around. The company’s financial results have gotten progressively worse from quarter to quarter, and the firm’s revenue has declined every single year for the past decade.Some have pointed to the company’s “Boss Your Own Wallet” campaign in which customers can enjoy a series of deals over the next few weeks as a potential way to drive traffic and increase sales.That’s a flimsy place to hang a coat. Sears’ dismal financial state has required a true retail renaissance — some gimmicky sale isn’t going to do the trick.To survive, Sears needs to up its game both online and in-store. Retail is a dangerous industry at the present and much larger and better managed stores are feeling the burn of the public’s shift toward e-commerce.Being in the retail industry means you’re already on thin ice, and Sears isn’t healthy enough to wait out a storm.It’s a Reason to Get Out, Not InThe recent lift in SHLD stock was certainly great news for investors who were still holding out hope for a turnaround, but as we’ve pleaded several times now, please get out while you still have something to get out with.You could’ve made an argument for a quick turnaround rally with Sears shares trading just above the $6 level. At nearly $12, though, it would be foolish to initiate a long position in a company that has admitted that liquidation is a very real possibility.Next Page


- By Jennifer ChiouEdward Lampert (Trades, Portfolio) (Insider Trades), CEO and 10% owner of Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD), acquired 525,936 shares on March 24. The average price per share was $7.93 for a total transaction of $4,170,672.Sears Holdings focuses on connecting digital and physical shopping experiences such as the Shop Your Way (R) platform that offers Sears and Kmart customers a social shopping experience as well as member-only rewards. The company has a market cap of $1.01 billion.The number and volume of insider trades increased from 2014 to 2016. The number of insider purchases increased from 11 insider purchases totaling 1,309,200 shares in 2014 to 19 insider purchases amounting to 2,411,101 shares in 2016. The number of insider sells also increased from 186,043 to 2,411,101, when comparing the two years. In 2017 to date, there have been four insider purchases totaling 1,643,836 shares.Lampert can be attributed to 525,936 of the total shares sold in 2017 to date in the aforementioned transaction. In total since 2013, Lampert purchased 3,641,586 shares of the company in 17 transactions. Fairholme Capital Management (Insider Trades), director and 10% owner of Sears Holdings, purchased 1,404,500 shares in 2017 to date. For more information about insider trades with Sears Holdings click here.For the fiscal fourth quarter ended on Jan. 28, the company reported revenues of $6.052 billion, down from its reported $7.303 billion in revenue from the previous year's fiscal fourth quarter. Net loss also increased from $580 million to $607 million, or $5.44 per share to $5.67 per share, when comparing the same periods of time. Lampert commented that the company "delivered significant adjusted EBITDA improvement in the fourth quarter," which is in line with the company's "firm focus on profitability to offset ongoing revenues pressures." However, despite "building on this positive momentum," the company is "taking decisive actions to become a more agile and competitive retailer with a clear path toward profitability." Chief Financial Officer Jason Hollar (Insider Trades) commented that the company was "successfully improve[d] profitability through disciplined inventory and costs management" in a "challenging holiday selling season."The company's annual revenue and annual net income follow a decreasing trend line and decreased 12.5% and 2.7% since 2012. For more Sears Holdings financial statistics, click here.On March 9 the company announced the closing of the sale of the Craftsman brand to Stanley Black & Decker (SWK) for a net present value of more than $900 million. Lampert commented that the sale "provides immediate liquidity to Sears Holdings" but also allows the company to "participate in the future growth of the Craftsman brand" due to the nature of the agreement. The sale allows Stanley Black & Decker to develop, manufacture and sell Crafsman-brand products outside of Sears Holding stores, but Sears will continue to offer Craftsman products royalty-free for 15 years post-transaction close and royalty-bearing after this time.According to GuruFocus.com, Sears Holdings has a business predictability rank of 1 out of 5 stars. For more information about business predictability rank, click here.In March 2017, Bruce Berkowitz (Trades, Portfolio) increased his stake in Sears Holdings. Berkowitz purchased a total of 1,314,700 shares at an average per share price of $8.67 per share. In the previous quarter, Berkowitz decreased his stake in the company by 0.44%, selling 123,100 shares for an average per share price of $11.41. The total estimated gain of the holding since the initial purchase in the first quarter of 2011 is -75%. For more information about guru trades with Sears Holdings, click here.For more stock trades of gurus in real time, visit GuruFocus' Real Time Picks, a Premium Feature. Not a Premium Member of GuruFocus? Try it free for 7 days here.This article first appeared on GuruFocus.


Between disappointing personal spending in February and consumer sentiment that didn’t advance as expected for March, traders couldn’t find anything bullish to latch onto to end the trading week. By the time the closing bell rang, the S&P 500 was at 2,362.72, down 0.23%, solidifying the slowdown we’ve seen unfurling since Wednesday.It could have been worse though — you could have owned Sears Holdings Corp (NASDAQ: SHLD ), Cara Therapeutics Inc (NASDAQ: CARA ) or Exxon Mobil Corporation (NYSE: XOM ). These three stocks were the worst of the worst, albeit for understandable reasons.Here’s what investors need to know about each meltdown.Exxon Mobil Corporation (XOM)The 2.0% pullback oil giant Exxon Mobil dished out to XOM shareholders today wasn’t devastating, but in terms of the amount of damage done as measured by total market cap lost, the company deserves a spot on the daily “worst 3” list.The company didn’t do anything wrong. XOM owners were just moving to a defensive posture in response to this afternoon’s release of the Baker Hughes rig count numbers. The number of working oil rigs in the U.S. rose for an 11th straight week, to 662. The ongoing advance in that number implies an oversupply of oil is brewing, which ultimately works against oil prices.Cara Therapeutics Inc (CARA)Biopharma name Cara Therapeutics is planning on a secondary offering, and current CARA shareholders aren’t thrilled about it.The company, which is developing therapies to treat pain and itching using its kappa opioid receptor agonist (KORA) platform, announced after Thursday’s close it would be issuing 4.45 million new shares of CARA at a price of $18 each. The entire offering, including the over-allotment option, is worth $92.1 million.There are 27.3 million shares of CARA outstanding right now — 22.6 million of which are in the float — currently priced at $17.90 after today’s 2.0% setback.Sears Holdings Corp (SHLD)Last but not least, shares of struggling retailer Sears Holdings fell 2.2% on Friday, bringing an end to a surprising and oddly strong 38% gain SHLD had mustered over the course of the first four days of the week.The sudden interest in Sears was mostly prompted by reports that CEO and hedge fund manager (as well as major Sears shareholder) Eddie Lampert bought an additional 525,936 shares of SHLD a week ago today. With an insider proverbially eating more of his own cooking, it was easy for traders to conclude he knew something they didn’t.That new optimism was dialed back today, however, when it was reported that the value of its credit default swaps — a bet that Sears won’t be able to pay obligations on its debts — have more than doubled in price over the past couple of weeks. The increase in price says more professional traders and institutions are expecting Sears to go into default.As of this writing, James Brumley did not hold a position in any of the aforementioned securities.


Ok, I get it. Sears Holdings is in deep, deep trouble. In fact, we all probably get it.In my humble opinion, saying the demise of Sears and Kmart has been a painful thing to watch would be putting it lightly. Before we get into that stuff, let’s just take a quick moment for a sidebar of nostalgia. If you're a pre-Amazon kid from middle America like me, you probably grew up watching Sears anchor plenty of malls. If you were into it, one of your favorite pastimes might have been leafing through the company's big, fat catalog, greedily circling what looked delightful and caught your eye. On a more personal note, some of my favorite toys from childhood hail from the shelves of an early-80s Kmart.But, let me be brutally honest as a consumer for a moment: nostalgia aside, for the life of me, I can’t remember the last time I bought anything at Sears. More recently, (but I don’t remember exactly when) I was shuffling through New York’s Penn Station when I needed something and ducked into Kmart, which actually had a line. But, maybe the line had something to do with the fact that it was rush hour and there were two cashiers.I’m not the only person who's stopped frequenting these stores. Not by a long shot.On March 9, Cowen & Company’s Oliver Chen and team reported that fourth-quarter 2017 comps at Kmart declined 8%, while Sears comps declined 12%. Describing the declines, Chen’s team wrote, “Management noted comp declines at Kmart were driven by declines in consumer electronics, grocery & household, apparel and toys categories. Meanwhile, the comps decline at Sears was driven by declines in home appliances, apparel, consumer electronics and tools categories.”And, it continues.More recently, the top brass at the company fessed up: Sears is in trouble. Its latest 10k included a going concern that didn’t mince words.


Sears Holdings Corp stock breaks out above 100-day SMA, resistance from 200-day SMA.Shares of retail stores chain Sears Holdings Corp (NASDAQ:SHLD) have rallied more than 40% in last five trading sessions, with the stock gaining more than 18% in yesterday's trading session. Earlier, Sears stock had plunged after the company disclosed to SEC in its annual report that "substantial doubt exists related to the company's ability to continue as a going concern". As it can be seen from Sears' technical analysis chart, the stock has found support from 50-day simple moving average which had acted as a strong resistance on multiple occasions in the past. Since then, Sears stock has made a strong comeback. The stock breached the 100 day SMA resistance line on strong volumes. Sears Holdings stock is now facing resistance from 200-day SMA. In a bullish move, MACD has risen above the signal line. The uptrend in Sears Holdings stock is supported by a short squeeze. 17.99 million shares or 76.4% of the total float is currently shorted (as per the latest report) with days to cover being 11.83 days. Given the strong surge in the stock price in last few days, many shorts will be trying to cover their position which could send the stock higher.Chesapeake Energy Corporation stock forming a double bottom.Shares of Chesapeake Energy Corporation (NYSE:CHK) have been in a downtrend over the past three months, declining 25% in this period. In a bearish move, Chesapeake Energy Corporation's 50-day and 200-day SMA's formed a death cross a few days ago. A death cross is a strong bearish signal. However, the stock continued to climb up. Chesapeake Energy Corporation technical chart, the stock has broken out above the 20-day SMA which had provided strong resistance in the past. A breakout above the 20-day SMA resistance in spite of death cross suggests a strong bullish trend. The stock is now forming a double bottom pattern. The double bottom is a bullish trend reversal pattern, which indicates a medium term reversal in the trend. The double bottom pattern will be complete when the stock hits the previous high.Groupon Inc stock finds support from 50-day moving average.Shares of Groupon Inc (NASDAQ:GRPN) are in a strong downtrend. Groupon Inc stock has lost more than 15% since the end of February. Groupon Inc stock has not been able to breach the 20-day SMA resistance line even after several attempts indicating that the resistance is strong. And as can be seen in the chart, Groupon Inc stock is forming a descending triangle which is a bearish continuation pattern. Even, moving average convergence divergence has turned bearish. However, as can be seen in the Groupon Inc technical chart, the stock is currently enjoying support from 50-day simple moving average. If the stock breaches the 50-day SMA support line, it could go much lower.If you are interested in technical analysis, have a look at our Top Technical Stock Picks for the week. If you like fundamental analysis, here are our Top Stock Picks from technology sector which have outperformed the NASDAQ by over 135%.


After a mixed start to the week, the stock market turned positive on Tuesday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 151 points, or roughly 0.7%. Other broader market indexes enjoyed similar gains, with the Nasdaq and S&P 500 up 0.6% and and 0.7%, respectively, as President Trump turned his pen toward rolling back what he described as "job-killing regulations" related to education, federal purchasing, and land use.But several individual stocks outran the rest today, including Sears Holdings (NASDAQ:SHLD), DryShips (NASDAQ:DRYS), and Red Hat (NYSE:RHT). Read on to learn what drove these unusual gains.Sears investors come back for moreShares of Sears Holdings skyrocketed 19.8% today, continuing yesterday's climb as a major investor added even more shares to their stake. Recall last Wednesday, Sears Holdings stock plunged after the company disclosed in its annual 10-K filing with the SEC that "substantial doubt exists related to the company's ability to continue as a going concern."But according to an SEC filing on Monday, Bruce Berkowitz of Fairholme Capital Management bought roughly 287,000 shares of Sears stock between last Thursday and Monday at prices ranging between $8.05 per share and $8.46 per share. Berkowitz's latest purchase follows a previous buy of nearly 614,000 shares between March 20 and March 22, and brings his firm's stake to an impressive 28.84 million shares.Also joining Berkowitz in his optimism last week was CEO Edward Lampert, who bought 526,000 shares between last Wednesday and Friday for around $8.21 per share. As it stands, Lampert now owns 31.84 million shares worth roughly $360 million as of this writing, cementing his status as Sears' single largest shareholder. Together, these purchases are viewed by many investors as a massive vote of confidence in Sears' ability to navigate its precarious situation through cost-savings initiatives and store closures.DryShips goes shoppingDryShips stock climbed 7.1% today after the dry bulk shipping company announced agreements to acquire four modern Newcastlemax bulk carrier ships with a combined deadweight tonnage of 206,000 tons for $124 million. That's well within Dryships' current liquidity of roughly $455 million, and company chairman and CEO George Economou notes the vessels were purchased at "historical low prices." In addition, DryShips notes two of the four carriers will be employed under time charter contracts, while the remaining two will trade in the spot market."Spot rates for drybulk vessels have continued to improve since the beginning of the year and our outlook for drybulk is positive given the modest order-book and the continued strength of the Chinese economy that generates demand for raw commodities," added Economou. "We continue to look at opportunities to diversify and grow our fleet with high quality tonnage and significant operating leverage."After years of painful industry conditions which saw DryShips selling off much of its fleet to raise capital, it's good for investors to see dry bulk rates improving along with higher demand for commodities. With this purchase, it's clear DryShips is gearing up to capitalize on that demand.Red Hat guides for a solid first quarterFinally, shares of Red Hat jumped 5.2% today after the open-source software company delivered strong fiscal fourth-quarter 2017 results. Quarterly revenue climbed 15.7% year over year, to $628.8 million, including a 16.7% increase in subscription revenue, to $559.6 million, and 8.4% growth in training and services revenue, to just under $69.3 million. On the bottom line, that translated to adjusted net income of $110 million, or $0.61 per share, up from $97 million, or $0.52 per share in the same year-ago period. Both figures were roughly in line with analysts' expectations.For the current quarter, however, Red Hat anticipates revenue of $643 million to $650 million -- well above the $642 million Wall Street was modeling -- with adjusted earnings per share of $0.52 to $0.53. Similarly for the full fiscal year, Red Hat expects revenue of $2.72 billion to $2.76 billion, and adjusted earnings per share of $2.60 to $2.64. By contrast, analysts were looking for full-year revenue of just $2.71 billion, and adjusted earnings of only $2.59 per share."As customers embrace digital transformation, they are turning to Red Hat as a strategic partner to deliver solutions that can help them realize the benefits of these initiatives," explained Red Hat CEO Jim Whitehurst. "Enterprises and service providers are increasingly adopting hybrid cloud infrastructures and open source technologies, which is fueling our growth and positioning Red Hat for the long-term."





Trouble grows for Sears, the iconic American retailer. After years of falling sales and losses, Sears Holdings (symbol SHLD) is warning that it's in danger of running out of cash and ceasing operations. As Sears goes, a number of stocks with close ties to Sears could be hurt as well.See Also: 25 Dividend Stocks You Can Buy and Hold ForeverConsider what's happening at Under Armour (symbol UA). The athletic apparel company has seen its growth rate slow to an eight-year low following the bankruptcy of retail partners The Sports Authority and Sport Chalet. Shares in Under Armour have lost more than half their value over the past year as a result.The management of Sears Holdings, which also runs Kmart, said in its regulatory filing Mar. 22 that there is increasing uncertainty as to whether Sears can keep its doors open. "Our historical operating results indicate substantial doubt exists related to the company's ability to continue as a going concern," the company said in its Form 10-K annual report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the fiscal year ended Jan. 28.So-called "going concern" warnings don't automatically mean a company is headed for bankruptcy. They can, however, serve as a prelude to a Chapter 11 filing. Sears, in essence, is running out of money and saying it may not be able to raise more through asset sales or borrowing.This should come as no surprise to investors, given the venerated company's long downward trend. What investors might not be aware of are some of the other well-known stocks that could get hurt in a worse-case Sears scenario:Seritage Growth Properties (symbol SRG)Seritage Growth Properties was spun off of Sears in 2015 as a real estate investment trust that owns and operates malls. Although a number of REITs have exposure to Sears, the troubled retail chain is Seritage's largest tenant. That's in part why Boenning & Scattergood analysts rate Sears stock at "underperform/high risk" (sell, essentially).Lands' End (symbol LE)Lands' End depends on Sears for almost all of its retail outlet revenue. As of Oct. 28, 2016, 216 of Lands' End's 235 outlets were located in Sears locations, according to regulatory filings. In the three months ended Oct. 28, these retail locations accounted for almost 15% of Lands' End's total revenue.Whirlpool (symbol WHR)Sears is a major outlet for Whirlpool products. Sears sells Whirlpool appliances under the Kenmore brand, as well as Whirlpool and Kitchen Aid brand products. Even with all its woes, Sears is still the third-largest appliance retailer by market share, according to market researcher Twice.See Also: 27 Best Stocks for 2017Copyright 2017 The Kiplinger Washington Editors


Shares of Sears Holdings jumped more than 9 percent Monday after Chairman and CEO Edward Lampert bought more of the department store's shares.Lampert, already Sears' largest shareholder, bought nearly 526,000 shares last week, according to a Friday regulatory filing. Earlier that week, Fairholme Capital Management bought up nearly 614,000 shares. Fairholme Chief Investment Officer Bruce Berkowitz is also a member of Sears' board of directors.Lampert's purchases came shortly after Sears acknowledged in a regulatory filing Wednesday there was "substantial doubt" it will be able to stay in business, sending the company's shares tumbling by about 12 percent.The department store chain said it lost more than $2 billion last year. Despite the disclosure indicating doubt about the company's future, "we remain confident in our financial position and remain focused on executing our transformation plan," Chief Financial Officer Jason Hollar wrote in a post on the company's website Wednesday.In February, Sears announced a new restructuring plan aimed at cutting at least $1 billion in costs this year and laid off about 130 corporate employees, mostly in its Hoffman Estates headquarters.130 years of Sears: Timeline of iconic Chicago company A video timeline of Sears from 1886 through 2017. (Jemal R. Brinson / Chicago Tribune) A video timeline of Sears from 1886 through 2017. (Jemal R. Brinson / Chicago Tribune) See more videosThe $1 billion target also includes previously announced plans to close 150 Sears and Kmart stores this spring and improve stores' selection of products while dropping unprofitable categories.Sears is taking "decisive actions to become a more agile and competitive retailer with a clear path toward profitability," Lampert said in a news release earlier this month.But it's still struggling to bring shoppers back. This month, the department store chain said it lost $2.2 billion last year while sales at stores open at least a year continued to slide, down 10.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared with the same period in 2015.As of January, Lampert owned 53.2 percent of the department store chain.lzumbach@chicagotribune.comTwitter @laurenzumbach


Historic retail giant Sears has experienced a slow and steady decline in recent years.Just last week, we reported the company saw a nosedive in its stock shares. Reuters further confirmed this, with a 16 percent decline. This raises further concerns for investors and stockholders still clinging onto hope that the big-box retailer will survive.With $13.19 billion in liabilities, some are worrying about whether or not the company will be able to stock its shelves for consumers looking to buy gifts in the 2017 holiday season. One of the areas that has increasingly become an issue for Sears is the eCommerce landscape with giants like Amazon moving in on their turf.Sears’ CFO Jason Hollar expressed hope for the company in a recent blog post. He said, “As 2016 proved to be another challenging year for most bricks-and-mortar retailers, our disclosures reflected these developments. While historical performance drives the disclosure, our financial plans and forecast do not reflect the continuation of that performance.”But a recent report from The New York Times also shined light on the fact that ESL Investments, the hedge fund owned by Sears Holdings chairman and CEO Edward Lampert, is also facing financial struggles.“It takes a retailer like Sears a long time to die,” Greg Melich, senior managing director and head of consumer research for Evercore, told the NYT. “It’s been burning through over a billion dollars in cash every year. That’s not sustainable.”The report also noted that back in 2006, Sears Holdings shares were $162, but this week they are barely at $11. Sears Holdings remains ESL’s largest investment to date, with a 48 percent stake in Sears Holdings’ equity and 32 percent of its total long-term debt.Over the years, ESL and Lampert have extended $800 million in loans to the retailer secured by assets, which the NYT pointed out is approximately two-thirds of Sears’ entire market capitalization of $1.2 billion.


Sears Holdings recently indicated that “substantial doubt” exists about its ability to continue operations. Years of selling off valuable sub-brands like Crafstman and Land’s End, as well as its best real-estate locations, have left the company struggling. So what should Sears do now? Its number-one priority should be to protect and restore its brand. Sears still owns a number of valuable sub-brands, such as Diehard batteries and Kenmore appliances. By looking at successful turnarounds (Ford, Marvel) and unsuccessful ones (Radio Shack), Sears might just be able to leverage those sub-brands to stage a comeback.Sears Holdings has indicated that “substantial doubt” exists about its ability to continue operations. While the announcement, made in the company’s recent annual report, seems to be a white flag of surrender, it could just be a yellow warning light. Analysts say that Sears may still have time to stage a turnaround. The company says it is taking action to ensure its future viability. So what should Sears do now? Its number one priority should be to protect and restore its brand.Some of the company’s moves in recent years have generated cash and kept the business afloat at the long-term expense of its brand. Strong brands like Lands’ End gave customers a reason to shop at Sears and cast a positive halo on the Sears brand. Selling off those brands may have had short-term benefits, but it eroded the brand in the long term. The company also sold off many of its best store locations, which means brand perceptions are now being shaped only by the customer experiences in older, shabbier, and poorly located stores.Sears needs to reverse this trend. Its brand still has clout; its name is as steeped in American culture as Coke and Levi’s. Once a lifeline for customers in rural areas with few shopping options, Sears has played an important role in many people’s lives. The company can tap into this goodwill if it insulates its brand from further hits and invests in restoring it to prominence.It should start with its internal culture. CEO Eddie Lampert’s alienating management style and lack of retail prowess has prompted a mass exodus of executives and has left the company with few leaders who really care about the brand. At the store level, the company has fired employees, cut worker hours, and failed to make investments to improve the store environment. As a result, store employees are bitter, embarrassed, and unmotivated.The company must restore brand pride, alignment, and engagement throughout its ranks. Alan Mulally led the turnaround at Ford by restoring a “One Ford” mentality throughout his company and championing pride in the Ford name. Lampert and his executive team should adopt a similar effort. It would encourage managers to make strategic decisions that build the Sears brand and frontline employees to provide exceptional customer service and restore customers’ esteem of the brand.Sears should then turn its attention to improving the customer experience. Perhaps most at risk is vendor support. Suppliers that are already under tremendous pressure from the changing demands of the retail industry are probably especially leery of extending themselves with Sears. As vendors start shipping smaller quantities and being less responsive, the inventory and selection at Sears stores is going to get even worse than it already is. To ensure that a strong product assortment can draw people into its stores, Sears should work on buttressing relationships with the vendors of its top brands. Of course, there are many other aspects of the customer experience that need to improve, but Sears would be wise to start with what made its brand great in the first place: a great selection of products.Sears can take a cue from Marvel. After it filed for bankruptcy, back in 1996, Marvel leveraged its portfolio of popular brands, including Captain America and Iron Man, to stage a comeback. By tapping into the fan bases of individual character brands and producing movies that used a tried-and-true formula of superheroes being pitted against evil forces while dealing with real-world issues, the company was able to restore the Marvel brand to popularity. In the same way, Sears should draw on the equity of product brands such as Kenmore Appliances, DieHard batteries, and Sesame Street products. The company should also void the recent deal to sell off the Craftsman brand, if possible. Sears needs to promote these brands more strongly than ever before, and draft off the demand and appeal they enjoy.Most important, to restore its brand value and power, Sears needs to make some sort of big, bold, visible move. It can’t simply tweak a few things and set its sights on surviving. That’s what happened at RadioShack. After that company declared bankruptcy, its new owners promised to reinvigorate the brand. It signed up hip celebrities as endorsers, closed some stores, and adjusted its assortment strategy. But to most people, RadioShack didn’t seem all that different.Sears must make a substantive change that not only gets people’s attention but also dramatically improves the customer experience. Consider Delta Air Lines’s merger with Northwest Airlines. After declaring bankruptcy, Delta was looking for a way to emerge as a leader in the industry — to get ahead, not just level the playing field. So it made what was a foresighted decision at the time and significantly expanded its routes by merging with another airline. CEO Richard Anderson has described the move as a deliberate choice to break away from the fray: “Our company decided that we would be different.”Lampert and his colleagues must make a similarly calculated and courageous move, whether that’s to merge with another retailer, integrate vertically, change the Sears store format, slash its apparel offering, or something else. Whatever it is, the objective should be to strengthen the Sears brand (i.e., don’t acquire another retailer and operate it separately) and to create more value for its core customers.It might be too late to save Sears. The company has drained the brand of so much equity that it’s difficult to envision a recovery. But if the company remains committed to reviving the business, its brand should be the top priority.


The latest exchange of 1.93 Million shares is below its average trading activity of 628.79K shares. The business earned $6.05 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $5.89 billion. EPS breaks down the profitability of the company on a single share basis. They set a "negative" rating and a $4.00 target price for the company. Buy rating has been given by 7 analysts to the company stock whereas 1 analyst given UNDERPERFORM rating to stock and 9 analysts given HOLD rating. The shares were acquired at an average price of $8.13 per share, with a total value of $2,330,058.00.Sears Holdings Corporation is an integrated retailer.Sears Holdings Corporation (SHLD) reported its last quarter results on 03/09/2017.In case of Revenue Estimates, 1 analysts have provided their consensus Average Revenue Estimates for Sears Holdings Corporation as 4.26 Billion.For the quarter ending 03/02/2017, The Analyst projected that the company could deliver EPS of -4.06 while the company provided its Actual EPS of -3.45 showing a difference of 0.61 Percent between the Estimated and Actual EPS. (NASDAQ:FOXA) shares moved to $32.44 after starting the day at $31.76. The average is taken over a specific period of time, like 10 days, 20 minutes, 30 weeks, or any time period the trader chooses.The 1 analysts offering 12-month price forecasts for Sears Holdings Corp have a median target of 4.00, with a high estimate of 4.00 and a low estimate of 4.00. Not surprisingly, SHLD options traders have been targeting calls at an accelerated rate in recent sessions. The day began at US$0.8901 but the price moved to US$0.89 at one point during the trading and finally capitulating to a session high of US$1.07. The Insider Ownership of the company now is 29.9 percent, and Institutional Ownership is 67 percent. The stock tapped a 52-week high of US$8.51 while the mean 12-month price target for the shares is US$1.38.In order to reach an opinion and communicate the value and volatility of a covered security, analysts research public financial statements, listen in on conference calls and talk to managers and the customers of a company, typically in an attempt to capture the findings for a research report. For the week, the stock is performing 24.18%.The stock's now has an analysts' mean recommendation of 4. Sears Holdings Corporation was covered by a number of analysts recently, 0 rated the stock as Strong Buy, 0 rated Buy, 0 rated Hold, 2 rated sell and 0 gave an Underperform. The Company is the parent company of Kmart Holding Corporation (Kmart) and Sears, Roebuck and Co (Sears). Moreover, UBS issued Initiated rating for the stock on 18-Dec-08.To analyze a stock, one should look for Upgrades and Downgrades of a stock.A trend analysis is a method of analysis that allows traders to predict what will happen with a stock in the future.Market Capitalization can be thought of as the overall price to buy the company. There was a stock increase by 19.83 percent. The stock climbed 28.56 percent over the past quarter, while surged 2.82 percent over the past six months.


I moved to a small town in Connecticut about a year and a half ago, and quickly became a Kmart shopper. It’s not something I envisioned in life: It’s just that I have two Kmarts conveniently located within about a 15-minute drive of my condo, and the nearest Walmart or Target is at least a half an hour away.The end is near, and I believe Q2 2017 will finally be the quarter when Sears Holdings files for bankruptcy and calls it quits. I’m not saying that solely because of its most-recent SEC filings, but also as someone who shops Kmart and Sears stores and e-Commerce sites.ADVERTISEMENTMy new surroundings made me see the unwelcoming side of Sears Holdings.As a reporter who has covered the retail industry for a long time, I’d seen what sort of technology strides Sears Holdings had made, particularly online. In fact, Sears topped Forrester Research’s 2015 Retail Omnichannel Functionality Benchmark of 20 leading retailers.But as a shopper — one who had previously tested buy online/pick up in-store options for research purposes, but didn’t really check the stores out — it’s been painful to watch the demise of Kmart and Sears.Seeing Is DisbelievingThere was a time, back in the 1980s, when Kmart was still the King of All Discount Stores. The stores were clean, well-lit places with the latest merchandise and friendly, happy associates waiting to give you a hand.But when I shop my local Kmart stores now, I see:An outdated décor and store designs that bring me back to the ‘70s;Aisles of off-season clearance merchandise (including an aisle filled with one style of snow boots that didn’t sell in the Winter of 2015, either);An electronics department filled with old-school MP3 players, phone cables and 35mm cameras;Northwestern University t-shirts and Cincinnati Bengals gloves that seem to be out of place in New England;POS systems and self-service scanners that could have used updating in 2010; andDisengaged employees who either have no direction, or seem to be buying time until their store closes.Where Are The Shoppers?The bathrooms are clean though, but that’s basically because no one is shopping at Kmart stores: Kmart’s comp-store sales fell 9.3% in 2016. As a whole, Sears Holdings, to put it lightly, is hemorrhaging money. Since 2010, Sears Holdings has lost $10.4 billion.Let that sink in. $10.4 billion.Sears Holdings admitted last week it has “substantial doubt” it can stay in business, which shouldn’t come as a surprise to anyone. Instead, the retail community and Wall Street should be asking, “What took so long?”Every quarter of this decade, business writers and analysts essentially have been writing Sears Holdings’ obituary. But there are three reasons the company has staved off bankruptcy for so long:But these are all finite resources, and Craftsman, DieHard and Kenmore all have higher customer engagement ratings than their parent company, according to research firm Brand Keys. Without these exclusive brands to purchase, the small group of loyal consumers who remain will have no reason to shop at Sears and Kmart stores.Shop Your Way Loyalty Has Been Over-EmphasizedThe Shop Your Way loyalty program, which has been Lampert’s pet project and the focus of every quarterly financial report since 2010, was supposed to be Sears Holdings’ savior. Ironically, it could be a significant reason for Sears Holdings’ downfall.Instead of focusing on and fine-tuning digital properties for the iconic Sears and Kmart brands, Lampert gambled on having shoppers come in through the Shop Your Way web and mobile portals. The poorly-designed Shop Your Way digital assets are non-intuitive, and they do not feature modern-day search capabilities or filtering. To make matters worse, there is no reference to Kmart or Sears on the Shop Your Way site, giving it a bit of an identity crisis.Three-quarters of Sears Holdings’ revenue is driven by registered Shop Your Way members, but they are not frequent shoppers and spend approximately $300 a year. Lampert said his goal was for those customers to spend 10 times more.I hate to see people lose jobs, and I hate to see two big slices of Americana — Kmart and Sears — become a bunch of abandoned buildings. But there’s a lesson to be learned as well. If you’re going to do business in the 21st century, you need to make your stores engaging and inviting, you need a solid game plan for e-Commerce and mobile and you need to invest in technologies and strategies that tie your channels together.


Everyone knows it's only a matter of time before Sears Holdings Corp. drops dead.From draining its cash position to $286 million in 2016 from a high point of $1.7 billion in 2009 to having disastrous holiday seasons to not generating cash flow from its operations or seeing revenue growth since 2006, Sears is on a slippery slope to demise.Even Sears admitted as much last week."Substantial doubt exists related to the company's ability to continue as a going concern," the struggling retailer said in an annual report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Essentially what Sears said is, "we're not sure if we can stay in business.""Is this new? No," Corali Lopez-Castro, partner at Kozyak Tropin & Throckmorton's bankruptcy and commercial litigation practice group, told TheStreet in a recent interview.However, "the fact that they put it into writing is scary," Lopez-Castro continued.Shares of Sears fell 47.32% in 2016 and Lopez-Castro said she doubts the retailer will be able to get out of its current dire position without filing for bankruptcy.Click ahead to see three of Sears' biggest mistakes that led it to its current grim state. Sears spokesman Howard Riefs did not return a request for comment for this story.


If all of this is accurate, why are Lampert and Berkowitz taking their sweet time when they should just buy up the whole company now and liquidate it ASAP?Even though I believe Sears is likely dead, data does suggest that there could be value stored up in its owned locations but even this is weird.Shares of Sears Holdings (NASDAQ:SHLD) soared on March 28th, closing up 19.8% after news broke that certain major parties invested heavily in the company's shares after the stock took a beating following news that the firm may not survive for the foreseeable future. In what follows, I will dig into recent developments and give my thoughts on what it all means for investors in the enterprise moving forward.A big developmentIt's rare that big investors pile into a company's stock when there's a very real chance said company may not survive. Instead, the general approach is to buy up that company's debt, with an exception being for activists seeking to turn the enterprise around. That's why, when news broke that Lampert, the company's CEO and the largest shareholder of Sears, bought 526,000 shares at an average price of $8.21 recently, the market took note. This brings his current ownership up to 31.84 million shares, which accounts for 29.8% of the firm's stock.However, Lampert wasn't the only buyer during Sears' downturn. Bruce Berkowitz's firm, Fairholme Capital Management, acquired around 287,000 shares between $8.05 and $8.46 apiece, on top of buying, between March 20th and 22nd, 614,000 shares. This all brings Fairholme's ownership in the distressed retailer to 28.84 million shares, which means that, between Fairholme and Lampert, around 56.8% of the company's stock is held.Obviously, this move by both parties sent a surge of optimism through the market for Sears. After all, the goal of big-name investors/firms like Lampert and Fairholme is to make money, not lose it. What's interesting to note from all of this is that Fairholme has long been bullish on the retailer, placing an estimated value of the stock of $147 per share in a 2015 report (released in 2016). Certainly, if Berkowitz is correct, the upside would be tremendous but if he's wrong then he and Lampert will both lose a nice chunk of change. Are they wrong? Or are we?Trying to pin a price on SearsIn a prior article on Sears, I made the argument that it looks very likely that the firm will not survive for much longer. This was based solely on the company's weak performance history, with sales falling, cash gushing out of the business, debt rising, etc... Having said that, Berkowitz and Lampert are household names in the investment community. I, sadly, am not. In order to see what they might be thinking, I created the following table below.*Created by AuthorIn the event that a company goes under, many of its assets won't be worth what the book says. Some might be higher but most will probably be lower. To address this, I decided to play it safe and apply a rather large margin of safety on the value of Sears' assets. Cash I left consistent with what was said on their 10-K but all the other assets I sliced in half in terms of value. Exceptions to this included goodwill, its trade name, and other intangibles. These I am assuming (they include brands like Kenmore, DieHard, Home Services, and the $900 million in present value from the Craftsman sale) are worth what Berkowitz estimated in his analysis of the firm: $5.15 billion. Land I left unchanged at $770 million and all liabilities I assumed are correct, and I wrote down the value of its buildings and similar assets to $0.You may be wondering why I would do this, especially with the value of all buildings being reduced to nothing. After all, these are significant assets with potential value to them. Simply put, my rationale here was that, by reducing the buildings to nothing, I can get a very conservative estimate of what the rest of Sears' assets are worth and then figure out, based on liabilities and Sears' current share price, how much value per square foot its assets must fetch in order to be worth investing in.Before I get more into the math, I need to talk a bit about the retailer's properties. Most of its real estate is tied up into 735 Kmart stores at an average size of 95,000 square feet (one of them is 185,000 square feet), plus 670 Sears Domestic stores at an average size of 139,000 square feet. On top of this, the company has 429 domestic store warehouses, customer call centers, and service facilities, a 2 million square foot headquarters building on a 200-acre site, and another 86,000 square foot office space.For all the research I did into this (I tried getting information from investor relations as well), the sad truth is that I don't know how many square feet going into the warehouses, call centers and service facilities but if you exclude those from the mix, then the retailer has around 165.13 million square feet. As you can see in the image below, however, most of its locations are actually leased, not owned, so to count those into the mix would, in my opinion, distort the image.*Taken from SearsOf its leased properties, most are included in the company's annual report as operating leases, which aren't included on the balance sheet but which are, technically, contractual obligations. As of the time of this writing, these obligations total nearly $3.68 billion but the fact of the matter is that, in some cases, these can be reduced. In its agreement with Seritage Growth Properties (SGP), when management sold off 235 locations in exchange for $2.7 billion and leased those back, the company has the right, if a particular location's profitability is bad, to cancel the lease agreement but they must pay one year's worth of rent as a result and may only do this to 20% of the leases, by value, per year.This is all rather complex and creates an opaque picture that would take a tremendous amount of time to unravel (and even then, a lot of information may not be attainable) but this is yet one more reason why I decided to hack half of the company's other assets off for this analysis: it provides extra protection. All of this said, if we look at the square footage that we can calculate and assume that our protection on the assets washes any unforeseen liabilities, we arrive at the math below.*Created by AuthorBased on these findings, if you include the current market value of Sears' shares, valuing the enterprise at just over $1.20 billion, the market is saying that, in order for the enterprise to be fairly valued today, its owned stores would need to be worth $106.96 per square foot. In essence, if Sears were to be able to liquidate today and get in excess of that price for every square foot of its stores, investors should walk away with a profit.My problem with thisI know this is a rather loose analysis but that's only because there is such a wide range of uncertainty that exists in this scenario, especially given the kind of data that management isn't telling us. Even if my numbers are correct, though, I have an issue here. From my experience of looking at commercial real estate, you would generally expect to pay 8 to 10 times what annual rent would be in order to purchase it or value it. If this holds true with Sears, on average, then we're saying that the retailer would be able to rent out each square foot for between $10.70 and $13.37 every year.This appears quite low and seems to support the bullish sentiments of Lampert and Berkowitz but, if this is correct, I have an issue. Between them, these two parties make up a majority of Sears' stock. If I were in their shoes and confident enough to have such a large stake in the retailer, why wouldn't I partner up with Berkowitz (if I were Lampert or with Lampert if I were Berkowitz) and take the firm private for cheap? This is even more true when you ponder the risk of bankruptcy. While Lampert, through ESL, and Berkowitz, through Fairholme, have provided a lot of debt financing to Sears, a move that will allow them to easily take over the assets should the end come, it would make more sense to me to only buy up the shares in the business if they are planning on buying them all up and taking the company private. This would speed up the time to a complete monetization of assets and would reduce hefty cash outflows every year. In the end, they would likely save money by buying Sears lock, stock, and barrel today.TakeawayBased on the data provided, the situation facing Sears is interesting to say the least. My prior belief that the retailer is a bankruptcy candidate still holds true in my mind but, if so and if there is intrinsic value that makes the investment worthwhile, why gobble up more shares when the best option might be to just make a full bid for the retailer and liquidate it as fast as possible instead of seeing huge cash outflows every year? This is dubious in my mind (suboptimal to say the least) and makes me wonder if Lampert and Berkowitz are thinking about the situation in the best possible light.Disclosure: I/we have no positions in any stocks mentioned, and no plans to initiate any positions within the next 72 hours.I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it (other than from Seeking Alpha). I have no business relationship with any company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


Now 2 analysts have outstanding research reports on Sears Holdings Corporation (NASDAQ:SHLD), according to the reports 0 analysts rate the stock "Buy", 0 "Outperform", 2 "Underperform", 0 "Sell", while 0 "Hold". 5192653 shares were traded during the last session.A number of investment brokers have recently updated their price targets on shares of Sears Holdings Corporation (NASDAQ:SHLD).Maximum and minimum EPS estimate for the current quarter is projected at $-2.86 and $-3.08, respectively, according to 2 analysts.Sears Holdings Corporation (NASDAQ:SHLD) is expected to post revenue of $4.26 Billion in the current quarter, according to consensus of 1 analysts.'Insults were said to the air' - Messi protests Argentina banThis means that Argentina will have to secure their spot in the World Cup by winning the remaining games without their captain. The further embarrassment of a first round exit at last year's Copa America Centenario only deepened the sense of despondency.12/08/2014 - Sears Holdings Corporation had its "sell" rating reiterated by analysts at Evercore ISI. For the past 5 years, the company's revenue has grown 21.6%, while the company's earnings per share has grown -43.6%.These analysts also forecasted Growth Estimates for the Current Quarter for SHLD to be -59.7%. The stock climbed 28.56 percent over the past quarter, while surged 2.82 percent over the past six months. Sears Holdings Corporation has a Gross Margin score of 6.Analysts estimated $-2.85/share for the previous Quarter, where Sears Holdings Corporation (SHLD) reported Actual EPS of $-1.28/share with the difference of 1.57 percent and a surprise of 55.1 percent. The current share price indicate that stock is -3.50% away from its one year high and is moving 26.89% ahead of its 52-week low.Basically, a price target is an individual analyst's projection on the future price of a stock. Additionally, Bear Stearns Downgrade its ratings on the stock to Peer Perform. The research firm Initiated the stock to Negative. The share price is trading in a range of $9.31 - 11.30.Governor Reacts To Trump's Executive Order"How insane could it be that the largest oil company in this country understands more [about climate change] than the President of the United States", he pointed out.IAMGOLD Corp. (IAG) has a market capitalization of 1.82 Billion which suggests the company is a huge company further suggesting that the shares of IAMGOLD Corp. While the company's share hit the 52 week high on Aug 4, 2016 stationing the value of $5.87. Over the same time span, the stock marked US$19.12 as its best level and the lowest price reached was US$5.5. The Company Touched its 52-Week High on April 22, 2016 and 52-Week Low on Feb 8, 2017.If we look at stock performance in last active day trading, we see that stock has moved ticked up 0.60% to end the day at $113.05. Sears Holdings Corporation P/E (price to earnings) ratio is 0 and Forward P/E ratio of 0.While Looking at Sales Growth (Year/est), the company is now showing a percentage value of -48.6 percent. The Return on Equity (ROE) value stands at 72.4%. If IAG is undervalued and the market situation is in decline stage, it might be a good investment too. The stock has earnings growth of -121.20% yoy and showed a high EPS growth of 15.40% over the past five years. The stock had previously closed at $8.50.OMG! WTF? Buzzfeed wants to go public in 2018BuzzFeed appears to be next company that is planning on launching an initial public offering (IPO) in the coming months. The company was founded in 2006 and until now, has raised hundreds of millions from various VC firms and NBCUniversal .


Start using the digital Book of Lists today. Print subscribers receive the printed Book of Lists when published.A lease provision for more than 200 Sears stores nationwide says landlord Seritage can lease all or part of the space.Enlarge KLNB is marketing several Sears stores across the Baltimore area.Sears Holdings recently warned investors that there is "substantial doubt” that it will remain a “going concern” a year from now. And now the company that is the landlord to more than 200 Sears stores nationwide is taking matters into its own hands.Seritage Growth Properties has tapped KLNB Retail to market seven stores across Maryland and Virginia — none of which were slated for closure in a recent announcement by Sears — under a provision allowed under Seritage's lease with the Chicago-based retailer.Enlarge KLNB is marketing several Sears stores across the Baltimore area.In the Baltimore area, KLNB is marketing three stores: The Mall in Columbia, Hunt Valley Towne Centre and South River Colony in Edgewater.All of the space at the stores and their auto centers are available. The Hunt Valley store, for example, is 74,600 square feet and the adjacent auto center spans 18,700 square feet.KLNB is also marketing the Sears stores at the Bowie Town Center, Valley Mall in Hagerstown, Fair Oaks Mall in Fairfax, Va., and the shuttered Landmark Mall in Alexandria, Va.The leases allow Seritage or other joint venture partners to reclaim 50 percent of the space within more than 200 properties and 100 percent of space at 21 properties. At stores where 50 percent is available, Sears would have to reconfigure its stores to make way for co-tenants.Sears’ 2016 annual report, issued earlier this month, said its business may be negatively impacted as a result of the recapture rights. Seritage paid Sears $2.7 billion for the real estate. The arrangement allows it flexibility in their store footprints, Sears said, but “if we are unable to successfully manage and execute our plans to operate our stores in the smaller footprint, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.”A Sears Holdings spokesman said Seritage (NYSE: SRG) is within its rights to try to “recapture up to half of the space occupied by the Sears store itself and all of the space occupied by the Sears Auto Center location.”


Shares of Sears Holdings jumped more than 9 percent on Monday after Chairman and CEO Edward Lampert bought more of the department store’s shares. Lampert was already Sears’ largest shareholder, but bought 526,000 additional shares last week, according to a regulatory filing.Lampert’s purchase came shortly after Sears acknowledged there was “substantial doubt” it will be able to stay in business, sending the company’s shares tumbling by about 12 percent. Back in February, Sears announced a restructuring plan aimed at cutting at least $1 billion in costs this year. The retailer also laid off about 130 corporate employees and plans to close 150 Sears and Kmart stores this year in an attempt to cut costs.To try and win back customers — the department store chain lost $2.2 billion last year while sales at stores open at least a year continued to slide — Sears plans to improve its stores’ selection of products while dropping unprofitable categories.


The retailer, long a staple in back-to-school shopping, said that after losing money for years, there is "substantial doubt" that Sears and Kmart stores (Sears Holdings Corp. owns Kmart) will be able to stay open in its annual 10-K filing with the federal government.But the company's chief financial officer, Jason Hollar, wrote in a blog post Wednesday on Sears Holdings' website that while "regulatory standards" required management to issue the "substantial doubt" statement the day before based on its dreary results past year, the company remained focused on turning itself around.He also points to an "unqualified audit opinion" by independent auditors that indicates Sears is a "going concern" or a viable business that can meet its financial and other obligations for the foreseeable future.Sears Holdings announced a major restructuring plan last month with the goal of reducing costs by $1 billion through the sale of more stores, jobs cuts and brand asset sales.Sears Holdings' CEO, Eddie Lampert, is a hedge fund manager who is also the company's biggest investor.Long before stores like Walmart and Costco dominated the retail landscape, and services like Amazon dominated online ordering, Sear was the go-to store for almost all of a families needs.There are 735 Kmart stores in the USA, as well as 670 Sears stores and 25 specialty stores.Cramer did acknowledge Sears wasn't misleading investors last month, but this new announcement is more important for investors to digest than any other prior announcement and update. In 2004, it merged with another iconic department store, Kmart and Sears Holdings became the third largest retailer.Holocaust Survivor to ICE Acting Director: 'History Is Not on Your Side'ICE said targeted enforcement operations are happening every day across the country. Trump has said he will cut off federal funds to sanctuary cities.Pizza delivery by robot to be tested in EuropeThis means that the food industry is ready to accept tech innovations to automate at least some aspects of their business. JustEat in Europe and DoorDash and PoshMates in the U.S. have also begun trialling the system.US Commerce Department to launch China market economy reviewTrump and his wife Melania will host Xi and his wife Peng Liyuan at a dinner next Thursday, a White House statement said. Before arriving in the US, President Xi will pay a state visit to Finland, his first to the European Union this year.The confession comes from the annual report that Sears Holding Corp, also owner of Kmart, filed Tuesday with the U.S. financial markets authority.In total, Sears lost $ 2.2 billion past year and has not reported an annual profit since 2011.Lampert owned almost 10 percent of the REIT that paid Sears US$2.6 billion in 2015 for the stores it purchased, many of which were then leased back to the retailer.Anais G. Berry, a spokesman for Cullinan Properties of Peoria, which owns and operates the Quincy Mall, says she is not concerned about any potential closing of the Sears store at 3501 Broadway.USA Today reported that a number of factors is killing retailers such as Sears and Kmart, including the changing tastes and habits of shoppers - along with the dramatic rise of online retail.The company said on Tuesday that actions taken during the year to boost liquidity, including the $900 million Craftsman sale to power tool maker Stanley Black & Decker Inc early this year, could satisfy its capital needs for the current fiscal year. It also said that the comments made in the filing were in line with "regulatory standards".Sears, which employs 140,000 people, has been selling assets like its Craftsman tool brand.


PREV NEXT Order PrintsPOTSDAM — Although they carry the Sears name, the local Sears Hometown locations aren’t affected by the closing of several of the Sears Holdings Corporate Stores, primarily in mall locations.That’s because the Sears Hometown Store locations separated from Sears Holding Corporation and the full-line Sears stores in October 2012. The stand-alone Hometown and Outlet now operate under Sears Hometown and Outlets Stores,Inc., an independent, publicly-traded company.Locally, there are two Sears Hometown Stores, one on state Highway 56 in Potsdam and another in the St. Lawrence Centre mall, Massena.Phil Vivlamore, owners of Sears Hometown Store in Potsdam, said they remain available to handle customers’ needs.“I want to assure our customers that we are here to stay and we are going to continue to provide the Potsdam and surrounding communities with the same great products, exceptional customer service, and wonderful shopping experience they have come to expect. We provide professional advice, exceptional service, and real time price checks to make sure customers get the guaranteed lowest prices around,” he said in a statement.Mr. Vivlamore said that, although they carry the Sears name, “the only relationship we have with Sears Holding is the name, and we provide service for Sears credit cards and services for warranties on products purchased on Sears.”He also noted that, because of the recent sale of Craftsman to Black & Decker, the Sears Hometown Store has a five-year exclusive right to new products and will continue to warranty Craftsman Hand Tools.Mr. Vivlamore said they expect the number of Sears Hometown Stores to increase from the current 1,200, many times replacing a Sears Holding store that has closed.“Every time a Sears Holdings store closes, most likely than not, a Sears Hometown store opens in that area. Sears Hometown stores are thriving and our store is no exception,” he said.And, he added, customers will find a personal touch when they shop at their local Sears Hometown Store.“We take pride in making our customers feel like they are walking into a mom and pop store. We know our customers, and our customers know us. The only difference between us and a true mom and pop store is we can offer competitive pricing on national brands,” Mr. Vivlamore said.““I believe our relationship with our customers is top-notch because not only do we take pride in the products we sell, we truly appreciate the customers we serve. There’s not a lot of stores out there you can say the owner sold me a tractor, but at our store you can.”The St. Lawrence Centre mall also has a Sears Hometown Store, which opened in 2015 a few months after Sears closed its anchor store at the mall.


KESQ and CBS Local 2 reporter Joe Galli reached out to representatives with Sears Holding Company. Sears could have owned the e-commerce business.It was the nation's leading retailer as recently as 1989, but Sears appears to be on the verge of shutting its doors.According to its most recent quarterly earnings, Sears lost more than $2 billion past year.The company said in its regulatory filing, however, that its agreement with the agency might stand in the way of more asset sales that would buy it more time. Havas has performed creative duties for Kmart as well as Sears' Craftsman, Kenmore and Diehard brand group since 2015.The company lost $2.2 billion in the fiscal year ending in January and has not turned an annual profit since 2010.In its annual report filed Tuesday with the SEC, Sears added new language saying its "historical operating results indicate substantial doubt exists related to the company's ability to continue as a going concern"."Going concern" refers to a company's ability to stay in business.Lampert owned almost 10 per cent of the REIT that paid Sears $2.6 billion in 2015 for the stores it purchased, many of which were then leased back to the retailer.Two Sears employees at Westfield Meriden mall said Thursday that Sears employees attended a morning meeting where they were told the media misrepresented the filing. The cash is useful now, but the trust has the right to "recapture" stores currently leased to Sears and rent it out to more profitable tenants. Sears owns that store, and it has always been a good-performing store for the company. "We're not really concerned at all".A blog post from Sears Holdings' chief financial officer Jason Hollar seeks to focus attention on what the company is doing to mitigate the risks associated with the company's current financial situation.The financial expert is confident that Sears will continue its operations for a few months, but at some point, he believes that the iconic American company is going to have dramatic cutbacks - or fold altogether.Portugal's Madeira Airport renamed after football star Cristiano RonaldoRonaldo extended his all-time scoring lead for Portugal, with Tuesday's goal his 71st while donning his national colors. Critics said a more distinguished historical figure would be more appropriate.Dustin Johnson pulls out of Shell Houston OpenThis victory does not get him into the Masters because the Puerto Rico Open is held the same week as a World Golf Championships. In the afternoon finals match, Dustin defeated 22-year-old sensational Spaniard Jon Rahm one up on the last, eighteenth hole.Utah Jazz: Balanced effort leads to 112-82 win over KingsUtah made 11 more threes than the Kings tonight, but even that was far from the biggest difference in the game. The streak was sixth longest in franchise history. "He came up pretty well for his size and he's challenging".Sears has had a presence in Quincy since 1928 and has been a fixture at the mall site since 1962. At time, it was the world's tallest building at 1,454 feet tall.At the Sears that anchors Inland Center mall in San Bernardino, the tags were Heidi Calvillo's first hint that something was wrong."(These kind of reports) are all par for the course in this type of business", Jenkins said."I don't know how much more they can cut back", Celia continued. The new disclosure "isn't anything that should not have been anticipated", Boni said. Kmart paid $93,623.27, which includes $18,013.64 for the property that formerly housed the Ruby Tuesday restaurant at 36th and Broadway in the southwest corner of the Kmart parking lot.Full-line Sears stores also are located in: Grandville; Jackson; Lansing; Lincoln Park; Novi; Roseville; Traverse City; Troy.It's been almost a year since Kmart closed its Fort Collins store, and three years since Sears shuttered its department store at Foothills mall. Sears Holdings has been closing stores, selling off assets like its Craftsman brand and borrowing money from CEO Eddie Lampert to survive.Their difficulties in integrating online and in-store sales while offering products consumers want have prevented the one-time leaders of USA retailing from capitalising on the 15-year high in consumer confidence that has lifted ecommerce retailers led by Amazon and newer specialist retailers such as beauty store Ulta."They've made little effort to modernize the stores", Nancy Halligan said.There are also new and dynamic players that have also revolutionized the market, namely Amazon.com.Grace Galarza, 26, of Riverside, who was shopping at the Sears on Arlington Avenue in Riverside on Wednesday afternoon, said the store holds a nostalgic appeal for some shoppers but admits she doesn't shop there often.The end could finally be near for long-struggling Sears and Kmart.


SmarTrend identified an Uptrend for Sears Holdings (NASDAQ:SHLD) on February 16th, 2017 at $7.53. In approximately 1 month, Sears Holdings has returned 54.42% as of today's recent price of $11.62.Over the past year, Sears Holdings has traded in a range of $5.50 to $40.75 and is now at $11.62, 111% above that low. Over the past week, the 200-day moving average (MA) has gone down 0.7% while the 50-day MA has declined 0.9%.Sears Holdings Corporation is a broadline retailer with full-line and specialty retail stores in the United States and Canada. The Company retails home appliances, as well as tools, lawn and garden products, home electronics, and other products. Sears Holdings also provides automotive repair and maintenance.SmarTrend will continue to scan these moving averages and a number of other proprietary indicators for any shifts in the trajectory of Sears Holdings shares.Log in and add Sears Holdings (SHLD) to your watchlist today so you can receive a real-time alert when the shares are about to change trend.


Vendors Are Hedging Their Bets With Sears Holding Corp.By Christine Kern, contributing writerScaled back deliveries and higher payment terms signal uncertain future for Sears.As Sears Holdings Corp. struggles to keep afloat, its vendors are hedging their bets with scaled back deliveries and higher payment terms that signal the retailer’s uncertain future, according to Reuters. These actions are a response to increased doubts about the embattled retailer's financial stability. Sears Holdings shares have plummeted following filing of the company’s annual report, in which it admitted that “substantial doubt exists related to the company’s ability to continue as a going concern.”In a company blog post , Sears Holdings CFO Jason Hollar downplayed the company’s risky financial position, outlining key financial moves and saying that media reaction to the filing “do not include the full disclosure which highlights the actions we are taking to mitigate those risks."Mark Cohen, the former chief executive of Sears Canada and director of retail studies at Columbia Business School in New York City, told Reuters that vendors need to closely monitor on Sears' finances. "Whatever vendors continue to support them are now going to put them on even more of a short string. That means they’ll ship them smaller quantities and demand payment either in advance or immediately upon delivery." He added that “Sears stores are pathetically badly inventoried today and they will become worse.”Hollar, however, asserted that Sears has been strengthening its balance sheet through raised capital and that the retailer “is a viable business that can meet its financial and other obligations for the foreseeable future.” Among the recent boosts are a $1 billion increase in liquidity from a new secured loan facility and a new asset-based loan providing an additional $250 million in “financial flexibility.”But the numbers don’t lie: Sears lost $2.22 billion in 2017, and had just $286 million in cash on hand; in 2012 it had $609 million in cash on hand. Meanwhile, its accounts receivables fell from $635 in 2012 to just $466 million in 2017.Neil Saunders, managing director at retail research firm GlobalData, told Reuters that tension will grow as the year goes on. "As we move towards the last quarter, I think we'll find there are more and more suppliers that are not necessarily willing to engage with Sears" and will demand cash up-front.


Old-line retailers are held to a different standard than new-economy companies such as Amazon and Uber, making it tougher to raise the capital they need to reinvent themselves for the digital era, and sales tax issues and minimum wage increases make it even tougher, Sears CEO Edward Lampert said. The retailer cut 250 jobs after reporting disappointing holiday season results, and it will leave another 151 positions unfilled, spokesman Chris Brathwaite said.


The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) and Sears Holdings Corporation (Sears) recently reached a new agreement that provides additional funding and security for the company's two pens ion plans .FREE Compensation Market Analysis Report! Find out how much you should be paying to attract and retain the best applicants and employees, with customized information for your industry, location, and job. For a Limited Time receive aFind out how much you should be paying to attract and retain the best applicants and employees, withfor your industry, location, and job. Get Your Report Now!The additional funding and security for the company's defined benefit pension plans is being provided in connection with the sale of Sears' Craftsman brand to Stanley Black & Decker.Under the terms of the agreement with PBGC, the Sears pension plans will receive rights to a $250 million payment due to Sears in 3 years from Stanley Black & Decker and a 15-year income stream relating to future Stanley Black & Decker sales of Craftsman products. In addition, Sears will provide PBGC a lien on $100 million of real estate assets.Sears may use a portion of the additional pension contributions to offset certain amounts of Sears' required minimum pension funding contributions in the future.About a year ago, in March 2016, PBGC and Sears finalized another agreement, under which Sears agreed to protect the assets of certain special purpose subsidiaries holding real estate and intellectual property assets, including the Craftsman brand.The sale of Craftsman required PBGC's consent, and in exchange for granting its consent, PBGC and Sears negotiated the additional funding and security for the Sears pension plans, which cover nearly 200,000 participants. The non-Craftsman related pension protections in the March 2016 agreement are unaffected by the new agreement.





Merchandise inventories as of January 28 fell to $4 billion, compared to $5.2 billion as of January 30, 2016, while merchandise payables dropped to $1 billion this year from $1.6 billion last year.Sears is more of a store "for our parents' generation", said Kelly Rotzman of Wyckoff, 40, as she and Diana Lucskay, also 40, watched their children play.Sears Holdings, the holding company for two iconic retail brands, has warned investors it can't promise it will stay in business.Sales at Sears and Kmart stores dropped 10.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2016 as consumers shopped at online sites such as Amazon.com at an increasing rate. However, the inclusion of Sears' new language in its SEC filing could be seen as a signal that Lampert's financial spigot could turn off. But real estate research firm Green Street Advisors says about 800 stores, or 20 percent of all US mall anchor space, would need to close to match the inflation-adjusted sales productivity of 2006. "I think there's still a strong place for Kmart in the urban markets and near-urban markets".David De Gea Future Key to Summer PlansAtletico Madrid's hitman is Jose Mourinho's top priority in the transfer market this summer. "He learned a lot from this". The Manchester United midfielder is seemingly keen to be reunited with his worldwide team-mate at club level.This is ironic, as generations of Americans and Canadians first learned this behavior through Sears catalogs. "We're not really concerned at all".However, Hollar said the quoted comments "are in line with regulatory standards that require management to assess and disclose potential risks", he wrote.Danbury Fair also has a JCPenney and Macy's, both of which have also recently announced store closures. Kmart paid $93,623.27, which includes $18,013.64 for the property that formerly housed the Ruby Tuesday restaurant at 36th and Broadway in the southwest corner of the Kmart parking lot. But with pension agreements in place, this may prevent other sales."Every brick and mortar (store) is hurting", Burrell said. The next month, Sears sold one of its most famous brands, Craftsman tools, to Stanley Black & Decker as part of a restructure hoping to cut $1 billion in costs.Lebanon's Aoun takes tumble as Arab summit startsNetanyahu frequently boasts of strong behind-the-scenes alliances with unidentified Arab countries. The statements, subject to last-minute change, were previously endorsed by Arab foreign ministers.Sears's popular catalogue became an emblem World War II of the consumer explosion throughout the U.S., however the company has been unable to adjust to changing times and higher competition, especially from companies such as Wal-Mart Stores, Target Corp and more.The agreement "contains certain limitations on our ability to sell assets", the company said. Sears lost out to its direct competitors as well as the explosive growth of e-commerce."They're past the tipping point", Ken Perkins, who heads the research firm Retail Metrics LLC, told the Associated Press."We've been ahead of the ballgame, and we've been fortunate that a lot of Sears in our different shopping centers have not closed".Park Geun-hye, disgraced former South Korean President, locked up in SeoulThe Seoul court said it made a decision to approve Ms Park's arrest because of worries that she may try to destroy evidence. Hwang Kyo-ahn, who is loyal to Ms Park, is now the acting president and an election is to be held by 9 May."We regularly communicate with our store associates about news involving the company and its transformation", Riefs stated in an e-mail. It now operates 1,430, a figure that has been vastly reduced in recent years.


The landlord of five Sears and Kmart stores in Maryland has been seeking new tenants to take over some of the space, part of an agreement between the troubled retailer and the developer that controls about 250 Sears Holdings properties across the country.The Sears at The Mall in Columbia will shrink from two floors to one later this year to make way for two new mall tenants, Barnes & Noble and an entertainment concept to be announced latersaid Lindsay Kahn, a spokeswoman for mall owner General Growth Properties.For now, the four other Sears or Kmart locations will remain open, including Sears stores at Hunt Valley Towne Center, Bowie Town Center in Bowie and Valley Mall in Hagerstown, and a Kmart at South River Colony in Edgewater, a Sears spokesman said.Those four stores were sold in 2015 to Seritage Growth Partners, a real estate investment trust, and leased back by Sears Holdings. As part of that deal, the Sears building in Columbia was sold to a joint venture of Seritage and General Growth Properties. As landlord, Seritage has the right to reclaim up to half the space at each store space."To date, we have not received notice from Seritage that they will be exercising that right" except at the Columbia store, Howard Riefs, a Sears spokesman, said in an email.The Seritage-owned Sears or Kmart stores in Maryland are not among 42 Sears and 108 Kmarts that Sears Holdings announced it will close this spring, including a Kmart in Dundalk.The closings and potential re-leasing of other stores comes as Sears recently warned that its ability to stay in business is in question. Sears isn't the only big department store chain trimming stores and forcing malls to re-evaluate old business models.Both JCPenney and Macy's are downsizing. A JCPenney in Easton was among 138 closures for that chain. Macy's is shuttering 100 stores, but none in Maryland.At the Columbia mall, the Sears top floor will be shared by Barnes & Noble and the entertainment tenant, both opening within the year, said Lindsay Kahn, a General Growth spokeswoman.General Growth Properties' Kahn said "several new concepts" will soon be announced at the Columbia mall. In addition, Z Gallerie, a new tenant that sells home furnishings designed to be stylish and affordable, will open by early summer, and H&M will open a larger apparel store in May. The mall also started renovations this week to upgrade its center court by removing a fountain and creating more seating and meeting space."Every mall across the country is looking at its position in the market and finding ways to make sure that they remain relevant in the retail landscape," said John Meyer, a principal with brokerage firm KLNB, which is marketing Sears' building leases for Seritage in Maryland, except for the Columbia site.For older or less profitable malls, and even some top performers, that could mean bringing in new uses, such as housing, offices or entertainment, he said."We have too many malls, and they're going to need to figure out a way to make these assets relevant," Meyer said.At least 13 retailers are closing more than 1,500 stores nationwide this year as consumers frequent stores less often and use computers and mobile devices to browse, shop for deals and make purchases.The Limited and Wet Seal went out of business altogether, closing more than 400 apparel stores, including six Limited stores in the Baltimore areas. Electronics and appliance retailer hhgregg closed all of its Maryland stores, including six in the Baltimore area.Abercrombie & Fitch announced plans to shutter about 60 U.S. stores when leases expire. Shoe retailer Crocs Inc. expects to close about 160 stores by the end of 2019, and BCBG Max Azria Group, which filed for bankruptcy, began closing about 120 U.S. stores in February, including a factory store in Arundel Mills in Hanover and two mall stores, at Towson Town Center in Towson and at Wisconsin Place in Chevy Chase.According to CoStar Group, about 100 U.S. malls will lose at least two of their department store anchors, and several will have three anchors close at once.Sears officials say staying relevant requires a transformation that involves attracting more members to the Shop Your Way online program, focusing on well-known brands such as Diehard and Kenmore and operating fewer, and some smaller, stores.Meyer said his firm has seen interest in Sears' space from retailers, restaurants and entertainment-related uses, typically for a portion of the store, though no leases have been finalized.In its annual report, Sears said the leaseback agreement will help the company reduce space in some locations.It "provides us with substantial flexibility in how we manage our store network moving forward," the company said.lorraine.mirabella@baltsun.comlorraine.mirabella@baltsun.com


NEW YORK, NY / ACCESSWIRE / March 30, 2017 /The two famous retailers have found supporters among the investment community to make their stocks worth a second look as both companies struggle to keep in the black. Sears found believers from within, while JC Penney, a stock that somehow always seems it is on the ropes, gained interest.RDI Initiates Coverage:Sears Holdings Corp.https://ub.rdinvesting.com/news/?ticker=SHLDJC Penney Company Inc.https://ub.rdinvesting.com/news/?ticker=JCPSears Holdings Corp. advanced 1.77% to close at $11.50 on Wednesday. The stock traded between $12.67 and $11.01 on volume of 5.2 million shares traded. Recent advances in this week took investors by surprise, as the company announced as recently as last week that unless its sales would dramatically improve or that reorganization of its debt by its creditors could be arranged, the company would have to file for bankruptcy. Only a few days ago the company essentially admitted it would close down 150 stores.The Company's biggest shareholders Edward Lampert and Fairholme Capital stepped in to increase their stakes in the business, contrary to the justified concerns over the retailer's future. The insider buying after the 12% drop the company took on March 22nd, is a sign investors should pay close attention to. A point that was not given much press in the same filing with the SEC stated that, "The Company said in the filing, however, that it believed the actions it has been taking would likely mitigate that substantial doubt." While a mitigation may not equal a resolution, the stock may be a bargain for the short term.Access RDI's Sears Holdings Research Report at:https://ub.rdinvesting.com/news/?ticker=SHLDJC Penney advanced 5.35% to close at $6.10 on Wednesday. The stock traded between $6.30 and $5.76 on volume of 34.85 million shares traded. What can be described as "Sears in Reverse," the company had announced in February its first annual profit since 2010 along with the closure of underperforming stores. The combination of moving into the blank spaces vacated by Sears and reducing expenses can be attributed in part to the day's price rise. Yet investors, perhaps with good reason, avoided committing to the company.Standard & Poor's upgraded the credit rating of JC Penney on Monday, March 13th. Its new rating is B-plus. The price of the stock on that date fell 5.82% to $5.99 a share. The company currently has over 1,000 operational stores. Given the current status of the retail industry, the question that still remains in the minds of investors is whether JC Penney is a bargain or a long term loss.Access RDI's JC Penney Research Report at:https://ub.rdinvesting.com/news/?ticker=JCPOur Actionable Research on Sears Holdings Corp. (NASDAQ:SHLD) and JC Penney Company Inc. (NYSE:JCP) can be downloaded free of charge at Research Driven Investing.Research Driven InvestingWe are committed to providing relevant and actionable information for the self-directed investor. Our research is reputed for being a leader in trusted, in-depth analysis vital for informed strategic trading decisions. The nimble investor can leverage our analysis and collective expertise to execute a disciplined approach to stock selection.RDInvesting has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.Disclaimer: This article is written by an independent contributor of RDInvesting.com and reviewed by Nadia Noorani, CFA® charter holder. RDInvesting.com is neither a registered broker dealer nor a registered investment advisor. For more information please read our full disclaimer at www.rdinvesting.com/disclaimer.CONTACTFor any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly at:Address:Research Driven Investing, Unit #901 511 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY, 10011Email:contact@rdinvesting.comCFA® and Chartered Financial Analyst® are registered trademarks owned by CFA Institute.SOURCE:RDInvesting.com


Q: Now that Sears seems to be warning it could file bankruptcy, I'm wondering what could happen to my extended warranties on the appliances I've bought from Sears? I bought a new refrigerator, stove and dishwasher last year and also purchased extended warranties. If Sears goes out of business, who would honor those warranties?S.S., WestlakeA: It is a bit unsettling that so many retailers that have existed for generations are having serious financial problems today. It's no shock that Sears, which also owns Kmart and has been closing chunks of stores for years, announced it's closing more stores this year.But the sucker-punch last week was Sears' warning that its end could be near. "Our historical operating results indicate substantial doubt exists related to the company's ability to continue as a going concern," the company said in a statement, adding it hopes to "unlock value" from a range of assets, and that could mitigate the problems.It needs to cut costs, borrow money and raise money by selling assets. Sears said if this current path continues -- its debt has increased from $3 billion to $4 billion -- then the company's future is bleak. It lost $2 billion in the most recent fiscal year and it hasn't been profitable since 2010. Sears was once the nation's largest retailer.While it sold its Craftsman brand of tools in January to Black & Decker, it can't sell everything because it will need some assets to cover pension plans. But Sears may yet sell its Kenmore appliance brand and Diehard automotive brand.Miami bankruptcy expert Corali Lopez-Castro said it's not a good time to be holding a warranty bought through Sears."The warranties could be a very big problem," said Lopez-Castro, an attorney with Kozyak Tropin & Throckmorton, who specializes in bankruptcy, creditors' rights and commercial litigation matters.Sears is pushing back on that.If Sears does file for bankruptcy, it may sell its appliance division to a third party, Lopez-Castro said. The key would be whether the third party would honor the warranties.There's reason to think the new buyer would indeed honor the warranties as a goodwill gesture and to hold on to customer loyalty, she said. But the buyer wouldn't necessarily be forced to honor the warranties.If the third party didn't want to honor the warranties, those would become unsecured claims that would take a place in line behind suppliers and other creditors."We are a leader in the service contracts industry and proudly stand behind our product," Howard Riefs, director of corporate communications, said in a statement. "Sears, as well as any other company that legally sells service contracts, is required to meet regulatory requirements designed to provide adequate resources to fulfill service contracts into the future. We will fulfill our commitment to our customers and members."On a another issue, Sears' rewards through its Shop Your Way program, Lopez-Castro urged consumers to use their points as soon as possible. "You should redeem them sooner rather than later. You may not be able to later," she said. "We just don't know how long the runway is for Sears."Have a question or comment? Murray is The Plain Dealer's personal-finance writer. Because of the volume of requests, she cannot help everyone who contacts her. To reach Murray: moneymatters@plaind.comPrevious columns online: cleveland.com/moneymattersOn Facebook: MurrayMoneyMattersOn Twitter: @teresamurrayI'd urge the same warning about gift cards. Use 'em soon. Who knows what happens to Sears gift cards if the company goes under.How far has Sears fallen? A decade ago, Sears had 3,400 stores in the United States. Now, it has 1,400. In 2006, it had 355,000 employees. Now, it has 140,000. The latest round of store closings nationwide including locations at Richmond Mall in Richmond Heights and Chapel Hill Mall in Akron.Sears, of course, isn't the only retailer that's hurting. Macy's and J.C. Penney have been closing stores for years. Others announcing closings this year: The Limited, CVS, H.H. Gregg, Abercrombie & Fitch, Radio Shack, Payless Shoes and Office Depot.


We have recently upgraded our commenting system. If you wish to comment please login using your social ID or create a new account.


Sears rises 18 per cent as chief executive buys sharesFinancial TimesAlready a subscriber? Sign in here


Retail NewsChicago TribuneEdward Lampert, chairman and CEO of Sears Holdings, acquired nearly 526,000 shares of the company’s stock last week despite a recent announcement that there was “substantial doubt” about its ability to stay in business.





Success! An email has been sent with a link to confirm list signup.


If Sears failed it would mean the end of a iconic department store chain that started in 1896 with a catalog.Sears Holding hasn't turned an annual profit since 2010.It is very important to reiterate that Sears Holdings remains focused on executing our transformation plan and will continue to take actions to help ensure our competitiveness and ability to continue to meet our financial obligations.There are 735 Kmart stores in the US, as well as 670 Sears stores and 25 specialty stores. The other stores are in West View, Butler, North Versailles, Bridgeville, New Kensington, McMurray, Moon, Leechburg, Belle Vernon and Latrobe. The rest are full-line Sears locations, including one each at Citadel Mall and Northwoods Mall. Those locations remain vacant. Since then, the store base has shrunk from 3,800 units to just over 1,400 combined Sears and Kmart stores.Get free real-time news alerts from the Baldwin-Whitehall Patch.While the Bay Area is a relatively strong retail market, the area is certain to see more big-box mall anchors like Macy's, Sears and JCPenney close as those companies struggle, said Jeff Badstubner, senior vice president at real estate firm JLL.While Sears Holdings sold off the Craftsman tool brand to raise operating cash, another future concern that the company raises is that the sale may not be as profitable as anticipated if the Craftsman brand doesn't sell as well as anticipated in the future."We acknowledge that we continue to face a challenging competitive environment", the company said. In southeast MI, it has a Sears outlet in Adrian and a Kmart in Monroe.Arnold Palmer Invitational: Rory McIlroy & Tyrrell Hatton fourth as Leishman winsHenrik Stenson, Graham DeLaet and Webb Simpson were among the high-profile names to miss the cut, which was three-over par. Hoffman was at 10-under 134. "Two-over on the back nine is not good enough". "I've been playing well all year.Seattle announces lawsuit over Trump sanctuary cities threatThe United States has more than 140 sanctuary jurisdictions, either cities or counties, including 37 cities. Responding to the Seattle lawsuit, a U.S.Keystone XL opponents promise to fight "tooth and nail" in NebraskaNoem says the pipeline's construction will mean added revenue for South Dakota counties and relief on the state's roads and rails. Obama argued the oil wouldn't stay in the US because it would be exported after being processed in American refineries.The company said in its regulatory filing, however, that its agreement with the agency might stand in the way of more asset sales that would buy it more time. He said he noticed a warning sign past year when Sears pushed to increase its purchases, which occurred "because a lot of their current suppliers were either cutting them off or limited them on credit"."They would need to make so many cost cuts, the business wouldn't exist anymore", said Neil Saunders, managing director of retail at research firm GlobalData.Another insider trade includes Beneficial Owner of More than 10% Class Fairholme Capital Management, L.L.C. who also initiated a transaction in which 64500 shares were traded on 15 Mar 2017 as "Buy".Sears Holdings CEO Edward Lampert, a hedge fund manager who oversaw the Sears merger with Kmart, began his own turnaround strategy for the ailing company, loaning it cash and spinning off parts as the situation grew worse.While its recent history has been written in red ink, Sears was once one of the nation's most powerful companies, both the Walmart and Amazon of its time."I notice that the last few weeks there's been a lot of clearance tags, and I was wondering about that", Calvillo, a 24-year-old San Bernardino resident, said Wednesday.The company has several stores in the Mid-South. But employees at the stores, speaking anonymously, all said they had heard no suggestion that the stores were in any trouble. It now operates 1,430, a figure that has been vastly reduced in recent years. Shares now trade near $7.70. Sears lost out to its direct competitors as well as the explosive growth of e-commerce.


(The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are his own. Refiles to delete extraneous words "scrapped together" in sixth paragraph.)By Rob CoxNEW YORK, March 30 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Little is more satisfying than cracking open a vintage Sears, Roebuck & Co catalog and marveling at the breadth of its offerings, dated illustrations and all. The one for the spring and summer of 1971, for instance, runs to 1,071 pages and offers everything from Dacron polyester nurse uniforms to colonial birch-veneer bedroom sets. Sadly, this once-great American retailer of everything may not make it to its 130th birthday in one piece.The more enduring legacy of Sears, however, which published its first catalog back when Grover Cleveland was president, can be glimpsed deep within the nearly half-century-old edition. On page 432 is an application for a credit card. A few pages later there's the "modernizing credit plan," allowing consumers in seven states to buy merchandise and defer payment.Sears Holding, the retailer, looks to be rapidly hurtling toward bankruptcy under the stewardship of hedge-fund boss Eddie Lampert. The financial-services businesses spawned by this empire – so robust a few decades ago that it built, in Chicago, the largest skyscraper in the free world – are alive and kicking. Therein lies a cautionary history lesson for Amazon.com, Alibaba and other internet conglomerates seeking international domination.The market capitalization of Sears has shrunk to around $1.25 billion, or a fraction of where it was a decade ago after Lampert merged it with rival Kmart to create what his investors hoped would form the foundation of the next Berkshire Hathaway . A recreation of Warren Buffett's model never happened. In fact, it's surprising that Sears shares have any value given the company's warning a week ago that it may not be able to continue as a "going concern," auditor-speak for bankruptcy.Lampert dismantled much of what was left. He spun off a collection of real-estate assets, which trade as the $1.25 billion Seritage Growth Properties. He also stripped away the Lands' End apparel business, which Sears acquired for $1.9 billion in 2002 and now has a market value of $700 million.Sears set its Hometown and Outlet Stores unit free four years ago, too, and it's worth $97 million. It did the same for Orchard Supply Hardware, which Lowe's bought for $205 million in 2013. Sears Canada still sports an independent equity stub worth C$200 million. And earlier this year, Lampert offloaded the iconic Craftsman brand of tools to Stanley Black & Decker for $525 million upfront, some $250 million in a few years and royalties for the next 15 years. All told, that's more than $4 billion of value from the retail remnants.That sum excludes a significant portion of the Sears heritage, however. The company's attempts to offer credit to catalog shoppers led it to start the Discover Card in 1985. That business was bundled with Dean Witter Reynolds, the stock brokerage it acquired in 1981, and taken public in 1993. The combination later merged with Morgan Stanley, which spun off the credit-card arm a decade ago.Since then, Discover stock has more than doubled and the company fetches a $26 billion valuation. And, of course, Sears' dalliance in the brokerage business, for which it was ridiculed as a purveyor of "socks and stocks," morphed into a chunk of Morgan Stanley with a 1997 merger of equals. The Wall Street bank today is worth $80 billion, some of which would have accrued to any Sears owners who clung to their shares.Also linked to the Sears of yore is property-and-casualty insurer Allstate. Originally named after a tire sold in the catalog, Allstate underwrote its first policy in 1931, insuring a Studebaker, after "a customer walked into the one-room Allstate office holding an auto door handle broken off in a theft attempt," according to the company's official history.From there, the business expanded into life, health and commercial policies. In 1993, Sears sold 20 percent of the insurer in an initial public offering, and spun the rest off to shareholders two years later. Allstate now carries a $30 billion market value, making it the most valuable vestige of the Sears realm.There were a few other operations, some of which endure today, and others that vanished. It bought the Coldwell Banker real-estate franchise in 1981, and sold it off a decade later. It's now part of $4 billion Realogy. It even had its toe in the early dot-com froth, with online forerunner Prodigy, which it offloaded for a pittance in 1996.Only with perfect hindsight did Sears fail to alchemize internet access, credit cards and a retail heritage into something resembling Amazon. Even so, there's the nagging feeling that the company's legacy will be more in finance than shopping. That may be instructive today, particularly as the global retail industry struggles to adapt to a world of seemingly limitless inventory and increasingly rapid fulfillment and delivery. In that sense, behemoths like Jeff Bezos' "everything store" and Jack Ma's Alibaba are taking the innovative promise of the original Sears catalog to its ultimate expression.The Sears story also suggests, however, that the futures of these modern titans and their rivals go far beyond the retail trade. Financial services, such as those offered by Alibaba's Ant Financial subsidiary, may one day create more value than its many other activities. Likewise, Amazon Web Services, which offers a suite of cloud-computing services, may one day dwarf its parent company. All that Sears once was may ultimately guide its corporate progeny. A casual browsing though an old catalog could be enough to do the trick.On Twitter https://twitter.com/rob1cox- For previous columns by the author, Reuters customers can click on- SIGN UP FOR BREAKINGVIEWS EMAIL ALERTS http://bit.ly/BVsubscribe(Editing by Jeffrey Goldfarb and Martin Langfield)


Close Get email notifications on George Myers daily!Your notification has been saved.There was a problem saving your notification.Whenever George Myers posts new content, you'll get an email delivered to your inbox with a link.Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.


By the end of 2012, Best Buy Co., Inc (NYSE:BBY) was flirting with single digits following an epic decline in Best Buy stock. Four years later BBY stock touched $50 to complete an equally epic turnaround. With Sears stock falling from nearly $200/share to a low of $5.5, one must ask if Sears Holdings Corp (NASDAQ:SHLD) is prepping for an equally, or perhaps greater recovery now that its found a little breathing room at $11.30.Sears stock has more than doubled from its low, and rallied a whopping 20% on Tuesday. Insiders are buying; volume is breaking out; and many around Wall Street are starting to sing the tune that SHLD stock is poised for some very large gains. However, there are some big differences in what caused Best Buy stock to fall throughout 2012, and what’s lead to Sears stock’s demise.First, Best Buy Co., Inc was never at any real risk of bankruptcy. Yes, revenue and margins had fallen, and Best Buy stock owners were loaded on fear with Amazon.com’s (NASDAQ:AMZN) growth and Circuit City’s demise. However, Best Buy’s debt to asset ratio was never high, nor was its debt in general. Sears Holdings Corp debt to asset ratio has doubled over the last few years to nearly 50%; its liquidity is virtually non-existent; and even its management has questioned its “ability to continue as a going concern”.Fact is that Sears Holdings Corp is a company who has less than $300 million in cash, and has seen $14 billion in annual revenue wiped out in just three years time. While most companies that reduce in size do so to drive margins higher, Sears margin has steadily declined. Sears Holdings Corp had a net loss of $2.2 billion last year!In other words, Best Buy stock loss was mostly fear and speculative, whereas Sears Holdings Corp is fully to blame for its misfortune. Therefore, Sears stock might very well trade a bit higher, but it is nothing more than a dead cat bounce. The unfortunate reality is that the Sears Holdings Corp story will likely end with bankruptcy and nothing to show for Sears stock owners but more loss.


WOODLAND HILLS, Calif. – Account Control Technology Holdings, Inc. (ACT Holdings), a national leader in delivering debt recovery and business process outsourcing solutions, is proud to announce the hire of Maureen Burke as Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Burke’s career spans more than 25 years of comprehensive business and financial services experience, including the last 17 years in CFO and major financial project leadership positions. She will report to the company’s CEO, Tracey Carpentier.“Burke is an excellent addition to our executive leadership team, and I’m excited to have her as our new CFO,” said ACT Holdings CEO Tracey Carpentier. “Burke’s broad business and financial experience and knowledge will be invaluable as we continue to extend and execute our business plan and strategic initiatives.”Before joining ACT Holdings, Burke held CFO and major financial project management positions at large global companies, including Tatum (a Randstad company), Wilsonart, LLC, Gap, Inc., Sears Holdings Corporation, and Renessen LLC. She also served as Vice President of Finance for Monsanto/NutraSweet. Burke has also worked within Merrill Lynch, developing investment strategies and comprehensive financial plans for individuals and companies.“Joining ACT Holdings at such an exciting time is an honor.” said Burke. “It is a great opportunity to be able to work for a company that’s been on the Inc. 5000 list for the past 10 years and has a philanthropic focus. I’m excited to work with the rest of the ACT Holdings executive team, to develop and execute business growth strategies to enhance further ACT Holdings’ industry leadership position.”Burke has an MBA from DePaul University and an undergraduate degree from Mundelein College (Loyola University Chicago). She also volunteers at Pacific Community Ventures, providing start-ups with direction and tools for financial planning.About Account Control Technology Holdings, Inc. (ACT Holdings)Account Control Technology Holdings, Inc. provides comprehensive business process outsourcing and financial services to diverse industries. Our companies partner with clients to help them run the “business” behind their operations so they can focus on what they do best – whether it’s serving customers, educating students, caring for patients, or keeping communities moving forward. ACT Holdings companies include Account Control Technology, Inc. and Convergent, Inc. and have 18 offices with more than 4,800 employees. For more information, visit www.accountcontrolholdings.com.


The space in Alderwood Mall previously occupied by Sears will become what city documents are calling an “entertainment/food village.”Related: What’s the deal with Lynnwood’s new traffic signals?According to a Notice of Application, applications for Project Design Review and Environmental Review were submitted to the City of Lynnwood in October.The project will provide a “variety of retail and dining options” as well as expansion of retail space on the south side of the mall between Macy’s and the Terraces food court.Earlier this year, Sears Holdings released a long list of Sears and Kmart stores that would be closing nationwide. Two Washington stores were on the list, which, along with the Lynnwood Sears, included the Kmart, at 5132 Sixth Avenue in Tacoma.On Jan. 4, Sears Holdings announced that a total of 78 Kmart stores and 26 Sears stores would close this spring. That follows hundreds of closures over the past several years.“The decision to close stores is a difficult but necessary step as we take actions to strengthen the company’s operations and fund its transformation,” the company said in a public statement. “Many of these stores have struggled with their financial performance for years and we have kept them open to maintain local jobs and in the hopes that they would turn around.”In April 2016, CBS reported that Sears needed to close almost half of its stores in order to survive. Based on the company’s performance index, Sears has been in a downward spiral — much more than other brick-and-mortar stores — and, according to CBS, would have to close 300 locations “to get back to the productivity it enjoyed in 2006.”Meanwhile, Amazon, which is just one of the companies credited with the downturn of physical retail stores, has opened a “pop-up” kiosk in the mall. A second opened in Southcenter Mall.


The company, which hasn't turned a profit since 2011, now has about $13.9 billion in liabilities.Sears, which lost $2.22 billion U.S. in the year ended January 28, has $286 million USA in cash on hand."They're past the tipping point", Mr. Perkins said. Its declining payables-to-inventory ratio, for instance, shows that vendors have been increasingly reluctant to keep the retailer stocked. Sears posted a narrower loss than predicted in the fourth quarter, and it has pledged to lower its debt burden and cut annual expenses by at least $1 billion. Beneficial Owner of More than 10% Class did a transaction type "Buy" in which 78400 shares were traded at a price of $8.86.An afternoon recap of the day's most important business news, delivered weekdays. Its stock had plunged more than 14 percent by Wednesday afternoon. Sears ended down 12 percent at $7.98."Our historical operating results indicate substantial doubt exists related to the company's ability to continue as a going concern", Sears Holdings said Tuesday in its annual report. But the retailer added that its comeback plan may help alleviate the concerns, "satisfying our estimated liquidity needs 12 months from the issuance of the financial statements".During the past year, Sears cut 25 full-line stores and 1 specialty store, leaving it with 695 stores in the U.S. Kmart closed 206 stores, leaving that chain with 735 stores.Millions of dollars have been funneled through the hedge fund of CEO Edward Lampert to keep the business afloat, but with sales fading it is burning through cash. It also recently announced plans to close an additional 150 Kmart and Sears stores, and it sold its Craftsman brand of tools and lawn equipment to Stanley Black & Decker for more than $900 million.The future of the six Sears and six Kmart stores in North Jersey, along with stores across the country, is increasingly uncertain. But cashing in on those assets also "starts to limit their options as they shrink".He heard about the statewide store closures but said the store seems full, especially with holiday decorations.The punishing retail environment has claimed several victims in recent months. The company's retail store sales decline was the worst among the top 250 retailers tracked by eMarketer as of November. She said her business would suffer greatly if Kmart went under, especially since her other neighbor, a Riverside County Social Services office, is moving to a new location in June. Bebe, which has about 170 boutique and outlet women's apparel stores, is trying to avoid a bankruptcy filing by shutting its stores and becoming an online brand, but the women's apparel chain may be forced to file for Chapter 11 if enough landlords don't negotiate, sources told Bloomberg."We acknowledge that we continue to face a challenging competitive environment", Sears said in the filling.AlixPartners, a global financial and operational consulting firm, predicted 2017 to be the year of the "dead mall" as more retail anchors exit. Dick's Sporting Goods, TJ Maxx, Marshall's and Home Goods, are among the most sought-after chains, said one real estate expert.


Timely pro tips to earn more rewards, maximize shopping dollars ahead of major sales eventHOFFMAN ESTATES, Ill., 2017-Mar-29 — /EPR Retail News/ — Just in time for the launch of spring yard care and fashion shopping seasons, Sears has teamed with personal finance expert and New York Times bestselling author Nicole Lapin to offer savvy advice for shoppers as they prepare to tackle spring cleaning, outdoor projects, and gifting for moms, dads and grads. In addition, Sears is about to launch one of its biggest sales of the year.“People always ask me for tips to better manage the household budget,” said Lapin, author of the new business empowerment book, Boss Bitch. “Through my partnership with Sears, I’m encouraging them to BYOW – ‘Boss Your Own Wallet’ – and shop with a plan to get the most value for every dollar. After all, how you spend is as important as what you save.”Lapin’s BYOW strategy outlines five musts to conquer the spring shopping season with budget – and peace of mind – intact. Lapin believes shopping education is an important part of financial literacy and shares the following pro tips:Join the free loyalty rewards programs – and learn the perks. Anyone can join a loyalty program, but smart shoppers learn how to really get the most out of them. Lapin likes the Shop Your Way program for its generous points accrual with every purchase, surprise points throughout the year, access to thousands of top brands, and its host of free additional services like personal shoppers. Celebrate the shopping “holidays.“ Not all sales are created equal. Plan out your shopping spree like a boss by recognizing the best time to buy such as coinciding with the best sales to save money and maximize shopper rewards. Lapin cites “Sears Days,” an upcoming event where discounts and deals will be offered storewide March 26 to April 8 , as an ideal time to buy, especially big-ticket items. This year, Sears will offer shoppers even deeper value with more reward points than years prior. When it comes to points, use them or lose them. People lose out on thousands of dollars each year in unredeemed points. The Shop Your Way program helps prevent this – points are linked to your account and can be used anytime, on any purchase. It (should be) a no-brainer. Choose your rewards; not the other way around. Join a flexible retail loyalty program with perks you value. Sears’ Shop Your Way allows shoppers to earn qualifying points at Sears, Kmart and Sears Auto Center and also with partners such as Uber, Groupon, Hilton and more. So with every purchase at Sears, they save money that would have been spent elsewhere. Take advantage of deals, both online and in-store. Retailers like Sears understand the way today’s shopper lives, online and IRL (in real life). They offer seamless integration between the in-store, mobile and online shopping experience so shoppers get the best deals whether they stop by or log on.“We spend hundreds of hours annually shopping for ourselves and our families,” Lapin said. “Isn’t it time we made that investment work for us? After all, we’re the bosses of our own lives – we’ve got work to do!”For more insight and advice on retail reward programs, Lapin just published a blog on the subject at www.NicoleLapin.com/BYOW.Sears Announces Sears Days – Best Time To Buy Sales EventFrom March 26 through April 8, Sears will host “Sears Days – Best Time to Buy” in-store, online at sears.com, or via the Sears app. During this special event, Sears will offer even deeper value with sale prices storewide and online, and more Shop Your Way reward points than prior years. For more information, visit sears.com.About Nicole LapinNicole Lapin is the star of the CW’s business competition reality show “Hatched.” She was the youngest anchor ever at both CNN and CNBC and has served as a business anchor and special correspondent for Bloomberg Television as well as the money-saving correspondent for “The Wendy Williams Show.” Lapin’s first book, Rich Bitch, a personal finance guide for women, became an instant New York Times bestseller, and her second book, Boss Bitch was released in March 2017.About Sears, Roebuck and Co.Sears, Roebuck and Co., a wholly owned subsidiary of Sears Holdings Corporation (NASDAQ: SHLD), is a leading integrated retailer providing merchandise and related services and is part of Shop Your Way, a social shopping experience where members have the ability to earn points and receive benefits across a wide variety of physical and digital formats through shopyourway.com. Sears, Roebuck offers its wide range of home merchandise, apparel and automotive products and services through Sears-branded and affiliated full-line and specialty retail stores. Sears, Roebuck also offers a variety of merchandise and services through sears.com and specialty catalogs. Sears, Roebuck offers consumers leading brands including Kenmore, Craftsman, and DieHard — among the most trusted and preferred brands in the U.S. The company is the nation’s largest provider of home services, with nearly 12 million service and installation calls made annually. For more information, visit the Sears, Roebuck website at www.sears.com or the Sears Holdings Corporation website at www.searsholdings.com.MEDIA CONTACTS: Brian Hanover Alicia Clarke Sears PR Zeno Group for Sears 847-286-6080 312-527-2SHC (2742) Brian.Hanover@searshc.com Alicia.Clarke@zenogroup.comSOURCE Sears, Roebuck and Co.3,035 total views, 10 views todaySponsored content


